As a security analyst, 

one of your responsibilities might include analyzing 

log data to mitigate and manage 

threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. 

As a reminder, a log is a record of events that 

occur within an organization's systems and networks. 

Security analysts access a variety 

of logs from different sources. 

Three common log sources include firewall logs, 

network logs, and server logs. 

Let's explore each of these log sources in more detail.

Play video starting at ::36 and follow transcript0:36

A firewall log is a record of attempted or 

established connections for 

incoming traffic from the internet. 

It also includes outbound requests 

to the internet from within the network.

Play video starting at ::49 and follow transcript0:49

A network log is a record of 

all computers and devices 

that enter and leave the network. 

It also records connections between 

devices and services on the network.

Play video starting at :1:2 and follow transcript1:02

Finally, a server log is a record of 

events related to services such as websites, 

emails, or file shares. 

It includes actions such as login, 

password, and username requests.

Play video starting at :1:18 and follow transcript1:18

By monitoring logs, like the one shown here, 

security teams can identify 

vulnerabilities and potential data breaches. 

Understanding logs is important 

because SIEM tools rely on 

logs to monitor systems and detect security threats.

Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34

A security information and event management, or SIEM, tool 

is an application that 

collects and analyzes log data to 

monitor critical activities in an organization. 

It provides real-time visibility, 

event monitoring and analysis, and automated alerts. 

It also stores all log data in a centralized location.

Play video starting at :1:58 and follow transcript1:58

Because SIEM tools index and minimize the number of logs 

a security professional must 

manually review and analyze, 

they increase efficiency and save time.

Play video starting at :2:9 and follow transcript2:09

But, SIEM tools must be configured and customized to 

meet each organization's unique security needs. 

As new threats and vulnerabilities emerge, 

organizations must continually customize 

their SIEM tools to ensure that 

threats are detected and quickly addressed.

Play video starting at :2:27 and follow transcript2:27

Later in the certificate program, 

you'll have a chance to practice using 

different SIEM tools to 

identify potential security incidents.

Play video starting at :2:36 and follow transcript2:36

Coming up, we'll explore 

SIEM dashboards and how cybersecurity 

professionals use them to monitor for 

threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.