Hi there. It's great to have you back! 

Let's continue to learn more about how to 

work in Linux as a security analyst. 

In this video, we'll explore 

file and directory permissions. 

We'll learn how Linux represents permissions 

and how you can check for the permissions 

associated with files and directories.

Play video starting at ::20 and follow transcript0:20

Permissions are the type of 

access granted for a file or directory. 

Permissions are related to authorization. 

Authorization is the concept of granting 

access to specific resources in a system. 

Authorization allows you to limit 

access to specified files or directories. 

A good rule to follow is that 

data access is on a need-to-know basis. 

You can imagine the security risk 

it would impose if anyone 

could access or modify 

anything they wanted to on a system.

Play video starting at ::49 and follow transcript0:49

There are three types of permissions in 

Linux that an authorized user can have. 

The first type of permission is read. 

On a file, read permissions 

means contents on the file can be read. 

On a directory, 

this permission means you can read 

all files in that directory. 

Next are write permissions. 

Write permissions on a file allow 

modifications of contents of the file. 

On a directory, write permissions indicate that 

new files can be created in that directory. 

Finally, there are also execute permissions. 

Execute permissions on files mean that 

the file can be executed if it's an executable file. 

Execute permissions on directories allow users to 

enter into a directory and access its files.

Play video starting at :1:38 and follow transcript1:38

Permissions are granted for 

three different types of owners. 

The first type is the user. 

The user is the owner of the file. 

When you create a file, 

you become the owner of the file, 

but the ownership can be changed. 

Group is the next type. 

Every user is a part of a certain group. 

A group consists of several users, 

and this is one way to manage a multi-user environment. 

Finally, there is other. 

Other can be considered all other users on the system. 

Basically, anyone else with access 

to the system belongs to this group. 

In Linux, file permissions are 

represented with a 10-character string. 

For a directory with full permissions for the user group, 

this string would be: drwxrwxrwx.

Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30

Let's examine what this means more closely. 

The first character indicates the file type. 

As shown in this example, 

d is used to indicate it is a directory. 

If this character contains a hyphen instead, 

it would be a regular file. 

The second, third, and 

fourth characters indicate the permissions for the user. 

In this example, r 

indicates the user has read permissions, 

w indicates the user has write permissions, 

and x indicates the user has execute permissions. 

If one of these permissions was missing, 

there would be a hyphen instead of the letter. 

In the same way, the fifth, sixth, 

and seventh characters indicate 

permissions for the next owner type group. 

As it shows here, 

the type group also has read, 

write, and execute permissions. 

There are no hyphens to indicate that 

any of these permissions haven't been granted. 

Finally, the eighth through tenth characters 

indicate permissions for the last owner type: other. 

They also have read, write, 

and execute permissions in this example.

Play video starting at :3:41 and follow transcript3:41

Ensuring files and directories are set 

with their appropriate access permissions is 

critical to protecting sensitive files and 

maintaining the overall security of a system. 

For example, payroll departments 

handle sensitive information. 

If someone outside of 

the payroll group could read this file, 

this would be a privacy concern. 

Another example is when the user, 

the group, and other can all write to a file. 

This type of file is considered a world-writable file. 

World-writable files can pose significant security risks.

Play video starting at :4:13 and follow transcript4:13

So how do we check permissions? 

First, we need to understand what options are. 

Options modify the behavior of the command. 

The options for a command 

can be a single letter or a full word. 

Checking permissions involves adding 

options to the ls command. 

First, ls -l displays 

permissions to files and directories. 

You might also want to display 

hidden files and identify their permissions. 

Hidden files, which begin with 

a period before their name, don't 

normally appear when you use ls to display file contents. 

Entering ls -a displays hidden files. 

Then you can combine these two options to do both. 

Entering ls -la displays permissions 

to files and directories, including hidden files.

Play video starting at :5:10 and follow transcript5:10

Let's get into Bash and try out these options. 

Right now, we're in the project subdirectory. 

First, let's use the ls command to display its contents. 

The output displays the files in this directory, 

but we don't know anything about their permissions. 

By using ls -l instead, 

we get expanded information on 

these files. Let's do this. 

The file names are now on the right side of each row. 

The first piece of information in each row 

shows the permissions in 

the format that we discussed earlier. 

Since these are all files and not directories, 

notice how the first character is a hyphen. 

Let's focus on one specific file: project1.txt. 

The second through fourth characters of its 

permissions show us the user 

has both read and write permissions 

but lacks execute permissions. 

In both the fifth through 

seventh characters and eighth through tenth characters, 

the sequence is r--. 

This means group and other have only read privileges. 

After the permissions, ls -l first displays the username. 

Here, that's us, analyst. 

Next comes the group name; 

in our case, the security group. 

Now let's use ls -a 

The output includes two more files—hidden 

files with the names: .hidden1.txt 

and .hidden2.txt 

Finally, we can also use 

ls -la to show the permissions for all files, 

including these hidden files.

Play video starting at :6:56 and follow transcript6:56

I thought that was pretty interesting. Did you? 

You now know a little more about 

file permissions and ownership. 

This will be helpful when working in 

security because monitoring and 

setting correct permissions is 

essential for protecting information. 

Take a small break and meet me in the next video.