Wow, we have covered a lot in this course! 

Let's review everything we've discussed. 

You learned about networks, network architecture, and the best practices used 

by security professionals to secure a network against security breaches. 

As we bring this course to a close, 

let's review what you've learned about security networks so far.

Play video starting at ::23 and follow transcript0:23

First, we explored the structure of a network. 

A security analyst must understand how a network is designed to be able to 

identify parts of a network that present vulnerabilities and need to be secured.

Play video starting at ::35 and follow transcript0:35

Next, we learned about network operations and 

how they affect the communication of data. 

Network protocols determine how the data is transmitted over the network. 

As communication takes place over the network, malicious actors may use tactics 

such as denial of service attacks, packet sniffing, and IP spoofing. 

Security analysts employ tools and 

measures such as firewall rules to protect against these attacks.

Play video starting at :1:1 and follow transcript1:01

We also discussed security hardening. 

Security hardening is used to reduce the attack area of a network. 

This means the attack does not disable an entire network. 

Security hardening can be done at the hardware level, the software level, or 

the network level. 

Securing networks is an essential part of a security analyst's duties. 

Knowledge of a network and its operations and security practices will ensure that 

you are successful in your career as a security analyst.

Play video starting at :1:29 and follow transcript1:29

And that brings us to the topic of our next course, 

which will cover computing basics for security analysts. 

In that course, you'll learn how to use the Linux command line to authenticate and 

authorize users on the network, and to use S-Q-L, 

otherwise known as SQL, to communicate with databases. 

Great work getting here! 

All of the concepts you've learned in this section will be essential for 

success in your role as security analyst. 

Now you can move on to the next course. Enjoy!