In the world of security, diversity is important. 

Diverse perspectives are often 

needed to find effective solutions. 

This is also true of the tools we use. 

Your job will often require 

you to use a lot of diverse tools. 

In the last section, 

we studied the Linux command line and learned how 

this tool can help you search and filter through data, 

navigate through the Linux file system, 

and authenticate users. 

Now, we'll learn about another tool.

Play video starting at ::28 and follow transcript0:28

In this section, we'll explore SQL and how it allows 

you to analyze data in a way 

needed for your role as a security analyst. 

We're going to start off by learning about 

relational databases and how they're structured. 

From there, we're going to introduce 

SQL queries and how to use 

them to access data from databases. 

We then move on to SQL filters, 

which help us refine our queries 

to get the exact information we need. 

Lastly, we'll explore SQL joins, 

which allow you to combine tables together.

Play video starting at :1: and follow transcript1:00

When I'm presented with a problem or a project at work, 

I often have to sift through a large amount of data. 

When I use SQL, 

I'm able to review data quickly and provide results with 

confidence since the queries are 

consistent and easily executed.

Play video starting at :1:14 and follow transcript1:14

SQL is a very powerful and flexible tool. 

Throughout this section, you'll 

learn how to use the parts of it you 

need as a security analyst and gain hands-on experience. 

Good luck, and I'll join you for the rest of the course!