Now we're ready to discuss 

a different aspect of your operating system. 

Not only does the OS 

interact with other parts of your computer, 

but it's also responsible for 

managing the resources of the system. 

This is a big task that requires a lot of balance to make 

sure all the resources of 

the computer are used efficiently. 

Think of this like the concept of energy. 

A person needs energy to complete different tasks. 

Some tasks need more energy, 

while others require less. 

For example, going for a run 

requires more energy than watching TV. 

A computer's OS also needs to make sure that it 

has enough energy to 

function correctly for certain tasks. 

Running an antivirus scan on your computer will use 

more energy than using the calculator application.

Play video starting at ::46 and follow transcript0:46

Imagine your computer is an orchestra. 

Many different instruments like violins, 

drums, and trumpets are all part of the orchestra. 

An orchestra also has 

a conductor to direct the flow of the music. 

In a computer, the OS is the conductor. 

The OS handles resource and memory management to ensure 

the limited capacity of 

the computer system is used where it's needed most. 

A variety of programs, tasks, 

and processes are constantly competing for 

the resources of the central processing unit, or CPU. 

They all have their own reasons why they need memory, 

storage, and input/output bandwidth. 

The OS is responsible for ensuring that 

each program is allocating and de-allocating resources. 

All this occurs in your computer at 

the same time so that your system functions efficiently.

Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34

Much of this is hidden from you as a user.

Play video starting at :1:37 and follow transcript1:37

But, your task manager 

will list all of 

the tasks that are being processed,

Play video starting at :1:42 and follow transcript1:42

along with their memory and CPU usage.

Play video starting at :1:45 and follow transcript1:45

As an analyst, it's helpful to know 

where a system's resources are used. 

Understanding usage of resources can help you respond 

to an incident and troubleshoot 

applications in the system.

Play video starting at :1:56 and follow transcript1:56

For example, if a computer is running slowly, 

an analyst might discover 

it's allocating resources to malware. 

A basic understanding of how 

operating systems work will help you 

better understand the security skills 

you will learn later in this program.