Now that you've learned the inner workings of computers, 

let's discuss how users and 

operating systems communicate with each other. 

So far, you've learned that a computer has 

an operating system, hardware, and applications. 

Remember, the operating system 

communicates with the hardware to execute tasks. 

In this video, you'll learn how the 

user—that's you—interacts with 

the operating system in order to 

send tasks to the hardware.

Play video starting at ::28 and follow transcript0:28

The user communicates with 

the operating system via an interface. 

A user interface is a program that allows 

a user to control the functions of the operating system. 

Two user interfaces that we'll discuss are 

the graphical user interface, or 

GUI, and the command-line interface, or CLI. 

Let's cover these interfaces in more detail.

Play video starting at ::52 and follow transcript0:52

A GUI is a user interface that uses icons on 

the screen to manage different tasks on the computer. 

Most operating systems can be 

used with a graphical user interface. 

If you've used a personal computer or a cell phone, 

you have experienced operating a GUI. 

Most GUIs include these components: 

a start menu with program groups, 

a task bar for launching programs, 

and a desktop with icons and shortcuts. 

All these components help you 

communicate with the OS to execute tasks. 

In addition to clicking on icons, 

when you use a GUI, 

you can also search for files or 

applications from the start menu. 

You just have to remember the icon or name 

of the program to activate an application.

Play video starting at :1:36 and follow transcript1:36

Now let's discuss the command-line interface. 

In comparison, the command-line interface, or CLI, 

is a text-based user interface 

that uses commands to interact with the computer. 

These commands communicate with 

the operating system and execute 

tasks like opening programs. 

The command-line interface is 

a much different structure 

than the graphical user interface. 

When you use the CLI, 

you'll immediately notice a difference. 

There are no icons or graphics on the screen. 

The command-line interface looks similar to 

lines of code using certain text languages. 

A CLI is more flexible and more powerful than a GUI. 

Think about using a CLI 

like creating whatever meal you'd like 

from ingredients bought at a grocery store. 

This gives you a lot of control and 

customization about what you're going to eat.

Play video starting at :2:27 and follow transcript2:27

In comparison, 

using a GUI is more like ordering food from a restaurant. 

You can only order what's on the menu. 

If you want both a noodle dish and pizza, 

but the first restaurant you go to only has pizza, 

you'll have to go to another restaurant 

to order the noodles. 

With a graphical user interface, 

you must do one task at a time. 

But the command-line interface allows for customization, 

which lets you complete multiple tasks simultaneously. 

For example, imagine you 

have a folder with hundreds of files of 

different file types, and you need to 

move only the JPEG files to a new folder. 

Think about how slow and 

tedious this would be as you use a GUI to 

find each JPEG file in 

this folder and move it into the new one. 

On the other hand, the CLI would allow you to 

streamline this process and move them all at once.

Play video starting at :3:18 and follow transcript3:18

As you can see, there are 

very big differences in 

these two types of user interfaces. 

As a security analyst, 

some of your work may involve the command-line interface. 

When analyzing logs or 

authenticating and authorizing users, 

security analysts commonly use 

a CLI in their everyday work. 

In this video, we discussed two types of user interfaces. 

You learned that you already have 

experience using a graphical user interface, 

as most personal computers and cell phones use a GUI. 

You were introduced to the command-line interface. 

Later in the program, 

you'll learn how to use a CLI in Linux and how 

relevant it is to your daily work as a security analyst. 

You'll get practical experience 

communicating through the command line. Pretty exciting, right?