Let's learn a little bit more about Linux and 

what you need to know about this operating system when working as a security analyst. 

Linux is a very customizable operating system. 

Unlike other operating systems, there are different versions available for 

you to use. 

These different versions of Linux are called distributions. 

You might also hear them called distros or flavors of Linux. 

It's essential for you to understand the distribution that you're using 

so you know what tools and apps are available to you. 

For example, 

Debian is a distro that has different tools than the Ubuntu distribution.

Play video starting at ::36 and follow transcript0:36

Let's use an analogy to describe Linux distributions. 

Think of the OS as a vehicle. 

First, we'll start with its engine—that would be the kernel. Just as the engine 

makes a vehicle run, the kernel is the most important component of the Linux OS. 

Because the Linux kernel is open source, anyone can take the kernel and 

modify it to build a new distribution. 

This is comparable to a vehicle manufacturer taking an engine and 

creating different types of vehicles: trucks, 

cars, vans, convertibles, busses, airplanes, and so on. 

These different types of vehicles can be compared to different Linux distributions. 

A bus is used to transport lots of people. 

A truck is used to transport a large number of goods across vast distances. 

An aircraft transports passengers or goods by air.

Play video starting at :1:24 and follow transcript1:24

Just as each vehicle serves its own purpose, 

different distributions are used for different reasons. 

Additionally, vehicles all have different components which distinguish them from 

each other. 

Aircrafts have control panels with buttons and knobs. 

Regular cars have four tires, but trucks can have more. 

Similarly, different Linux distributions contain different preinstalled programs, 

user interfaces, and much more. 

A lot of this is based on what the Linux user needs, but 

some distros are also chosen based on preference—the 

same way a sports car might be chosen as a vehicle.

Play video starting at :2:2 and follow transcript2:02

The advantage of using Linux as an OS is that you can customize it. 

Distributions include the Linux kernel, utilities, 

a package management system, and an installer. 

We learned earlier that Linux is open source, and 

anyone can contribute to adding to the source code. 

That is how new distributions are created.

Play video starting at :2:21 and follow transcript2:21

All distros are derived from another distro, but 

there are a few that are considered parent distributions. 

Red Hat® is the parent of CentOS, and Slackware® is the parent of SUSE®. 

Both Ubuntu and KALI LINUX™ are derived from Debian.

Play video starting at :2:35 and follow transcript2:35

As we continue, we're going to take a look at some of the distributions most commonly 

used by security analysts. 

The more you understand these distributions, 

the easier your work will be.