The security industry is constantly evolving, 

but many present-day attacks are not entirely new. 

Attackers often alter or enhance previous methods. 

Understanding past attacks can 

provide direction for how to handle 

or investigate incidents in 

your job as a security analyst. 

First, let's go over a couple of key terms 

that will support your understanding 

of the attacks we'll discuss. 

A computer virus is 

malicious code written to interfere with 

computer operations and cause 

damage to data and software. 

The virus attaches itself to 

programs or documents on a computer, 

then spreads and infects 

one or more computers in a network. 

Today, viruses are more commonly referred to as malware, 

which is software designed to harm devices or networks. 

Two examples of early malware attacks that we'll 

cover are the Brain virus and the Morris worm.

Play video starting at :1:2 and follow transcript1:02

They were created by 

malware developers to accomplish specific tasks. 

However, the developers underestimated the impact 

their malware would have and the amount 

of infected computers there would be. 

Let's take a closer look at these attacks and 

discuss how they helped shape 

security as we know it today. 

In 1986, the Alvi brothers created the Brain virus, 

although the intention of the virus was to track 

illegal copies of medical software 

and prevent pirated licenses, 

what the virus actually did was unexpected. 

Once a person used a pirated copy of the software, 

the virus-infected 

that computer. 

Then, any disk that was 

inserted into the computer was also infected. 

The virus spread to a new computer 

every time someone used one of the infected disks. 

Undetected, the virus 

spread globally within a couple of months. 

Although the intention was not to 

destroy data or hardware, 

the virus slowed down productivity and 

significantly impacted business operations.

Play video starting at :2:9 and follow transcript2:09

The Brain virus fundamentally 

altered the computing industry, 

emphasizing the need for a plan to 

maintain security and productivity. 

As a security analyst, 

you will follow and maintain 

strategies put in place to ensure 

your organization has a plan 

to keep their data and people safe. 

Another influential computer attack was the Morris worm.

Play video starting at :2:33 and follow transcript2:33

In 1988, Robert Morris developed 

a program to assess the size of the internet. 

The program crawled the web and installed itself onto 

other computers to tally the number 

of computers that were connected to the internet. 

Sounds simple, right? 

The program, however, failed to 

keep track of the computers it had 

already compromised and continued to re-install 

itself until the computers ran out of memory and crashed. 

About 6,000 computers were affected, 

representing 10% of the internet at the time. 

This attack cost millions of dollars in damages due to 

business disruptions and the efforts 

required to remove the worm. 

After the Morris worm, 

Computer Emergency Response Teams, 

known as CERTs®, were 

established to respond to computer security incidents. 

CERTs still exist today, 

but their place in the security industry has 

expanded to include more responsibilities. 

Later in this program, 

you'll learn more about 

the core functions of these security teams 

and gain hands-on practice 

with detection and response tools. 

Early attacks played a key role 

in shaping the current security industry. 

And coming up, we'll discuss how 

attacks evolved in the digital age.