Learning to communicate in a new way can be exciting. 

Maybe you've learned a new language 

and can remember this feeling. 

Perhaps a lot of us share this excitement with 

young children as they are expanding their vocabulary. 

Others, including me, remember a sense of wonder when we 

first used a specialized language 

to communicate with their computer. 

In this section, we'll continue to learn more about 

Linux and how to 

communicate with the OS through its shell.

Play video starting at ::28 and follow transcript0:28

You'll utilize the command line 

to communicate with the OS. 

You'll learn how to input 

commands in the shell and learn about some of 

the core Linux commands that you'll 

use as a security analyst. 

Specifically, this includes 

navigating and managing the file system. 

You'll also focus on 

authenticating and authorizing users. 

This means you'll be able to 

use a command line to add and 

delete users from the system and 

to control what they have access to. 

Finally, there's always more to learn. 

We'll cover accessing resources that 

support learning new Linux commands.

Play video starting at :1:3 and follow transcript1:03

I remember when I first learned about the command line 

and was shocked at the capabilities it provided. 

I didn't need to click through 

multiple screens to get tasks done. 

Although it took some practice and time to get used to, 

it has been one of the biggest tools at my disposal. 

After this section, you'll have 

a practical experience in an area 

important to the work of 

a security analyst: using Linux commands.