For any job, you need certain skills to be successful, 

and many of these core skills are 

transferable from one role to the next. 

No matter what job you currently have, 

you likely have many core skills already. 

Having a diverse background enhances your core skills, 

which means your personal experiences 

and perspectives are especially valuable.

Play video starting at ::23 and follow transcript0:23

In this video, we'll discuss 

both transferable and technical skills that are 

particularly useful for a security analyst.

Play video starting at ::30 and follow transcript0:30

Transferable skills are skills from 

other areas that can apply to different careers.

Play video starting at ::35 and follow transcript0:35

Technical skills may apply 

to several professions as well. 

However, at times they may require knowledge of 

specific tools, procedures, and policies.

Play video starting at ::45 and follow transcript0:45

Let's discuss some core 

transferable skills you may already have 

that will benefit you 

in a career as a security analyst. 

Communication is a transferable skill 

for a security analyst. 

They will often need to describe certain threats, risks, 

or vulnerabilities to people who 

may not have a technical background.

Play video starting at :1:4 and follow transcript1:04

For example, security analysts may be tasked with 

interpreting and communicating policies 

and procedures to other employees. 

Or analysts may be asked to report findings to 

their supervisors, so the appropriate actions 

can be taken to secure the organization.

Play video starting at :1:21 and follow transcript1:21

Another transferable skill is collaboration. 

Security analysts often work in teams with engineers, 

digital forensic investigators, and program managers. 

For example, if you are working 

to roll out a new security feature, 

you will likely have a project manager, 

an engineer, and an ethical hacker on your team. 

Security analysts also need to be able to 

analyze complex scenarios that they may encounter. 

For example, 

a security analyst may need 

to make recommendations about how 

different tools can support efficiency 

and safeguard an organization's internal network.

Play video starting at :1:58 and follow transcript1:58

The last transferable skill that 

we'll discuss is problem-solving. 

Identifying a security problem 

and then diagnosing it and providing 

solutions is a necessary skill 

to keep business operations safe. 

Understanding threat actors and identifying trends 

can provide insight on how to handle future threats.

Play video starting at :2:18 and follow transcript2:18

Okay, now that we've covered 

some important transferable skills, 

let's discuss some technical skills 

that security analysts need to develop. 

A basic understanding of 

programming languages is 

an important skill to develop because 

security analysts can use programming to 

automate tasks and identify error messages.

Play video starting at :2:37 and follow transcript2:37

Like learning any other language, 

learning a programming language 

may seem challenging at first. 

However, this certificate program 

assumes no prior programming experience, 

so we'll start at the very beginning 

and provide several opportunities for 

hands-on practice with languages like Python and SQL.

Play video starting at :2:57 and follow transcript2:57

Another important technical skill is knowing how to use 

security information and event management, or SIEM, tools. 

Security professionals use SIEM tools to identify and 

analyze security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. 

For example, a SIEM tool may alert 

you that an unknown user has accessed the system. 

In the event of an unknown user accessing the system, 

you may use computer forensics 

to investigate the incident.

Play video starting at :3:26 and follow transcript3:26

Now, let's discuss computer forensics. 

Similar to an investigator and 

a forensic scientist working in 

the criminal justice system, 

digital forensic investigators will 

attempt to identify, analyze, 

and preserve criminal evidence within networks, 

computers, and electronic devices.

Play video starting at :3:45 and follow transcript3:45

Keep in mind that you may already have 

some of the core skills we've discussed. 

And if you don't have the technical skills, that's okay! 

This program is designed to 

support you in learning those skills.

Play video starting at :3:56 and follow transcript3:56

For example, over 

the past seven years working in cybersecurity, 

I've learned that security analysts need to have 

intellectual curiosity and the motivation 

to keep learning in order to succeed. 

Personally, I dedicate time 

on a regular basis towards learning 

more Python and SQL skills in order 

to meet the demands of the projects I'm working on. 

You'll get to learn about Python and 

SQL later in this program.

Play video starting at :4:21 and follow transcript4:21

As you continue this journey, 

you'll build the knowledge and skills 

you need to enter the security field.