Now that we covered: pwd, ls, 

and cd and are familiar with 

these basic commands for 

navigating the Linux file system, 

let's look at a couple of ways to 

find what you need within this system. 

As a security analyst, 

your work will likely involve 

filtering for the information you need. 

Filtering means searching your system for 

specific information that can 

help you solve complex problems. 

For example, imagine that your team 

determines a piece of 

malware contains a string of characters. 

You might be tasked with finding other files with 

the same string to determine if 

those files contain the same malware. 

Later, we'll learn more about how 

you can use SQL to filter a database, 

but Linux is a good place to start basic filtering.

Play video starting at ::47 and follow transcript0:47

First, we'll start with grep. 

The grep command searches a specified file and 

returns all lines in 

the file containing a specified string. 

Here's an example of this. 

Let's say we have a file called updates.txt, 

and we're currently looking for lines that 

contain the word: OS. 

If the file is large, 

it would take a long time to visually scan for this. 

Instead, after navigating to 

the directory that contains updates.txt, 

we'll type the command: 

grep OS updates.txt into the shell. 

Notice how the grep command is followed by two arguments. 

The first argument is the string we're searching for; 

in this case, OS. 

The second argument is the name of the file 

we're searching through, updates.txt. 

When we press enter, 

Bash returns all lines containing the word OS.

Play video starting at :1:46 and follow transcript1:46

Now let's talk about piping. 

Piping is a Linux command that 

can be used for a variety of purposes. 

In a moment, we'll focus on 

how it can be used for filtering. 

But first, let's talk about the general idea of piping. 

The piping command sends a standard output of 

one command as standard input 

into another command for further processing. 

It's represented by the vertical bar character. 

In our context, 

we can refer to this as the pipe character. 

Take a moment and imagine a physical pipe. 

Physical pipes have two ends. 

On one end, for example, 

water might enter the pipe from a hot water tank. 

Then, it travels through the pipe and 

comes out on the other end in a sink. 

Similarly, in Linux, 

piping also involves redirection. 

Output from one command is sent through 

the pipe and then is used on the other side of the pipe. 

Earlier in this video, 

I explained how grep can be used to filter for 

strings of characters within a file. 

Grep can also be incorporated after a pipe.

Play video starting at :2:51 and follow transcript2:51

Let's focus on this example. 

The first command, ls, 

instructs the operating system to output the file 

and directory contents of their reports subdirectory. 

But because the command is followed by the pipe, 

the output isn't returned to the screen. 

Instead, it's sent to the next command. 

As we just learned, 

grep searches for a specified string of characters; 

in this case, it's users. 

But where is it searching? 

Since grep follows a pipe, 

the output of the previous command 

indicates where to search. 

In this case, that output is a list of 

files and directories within the reports subdirectory. 

It will return all files and 

directories that contain the word: users.

Play video starting at :3:36 and follow transcript3:36

Let's explore this in Bash. 

So we can better understand how the filter works, 

let's first output everything in the reports directory. 

If we were already in the directory, 

we would just need to input ls. 

But since we're not, we'll also 

specify the path to this directory. 

When we press enter, 

the output indicates there are 

seven files in the reports directory. 

Because we want to return 

only the files that contain the word users, 

we'll combine this ls command 

with piping and the grep command. 

As the output demonstrates, 

Linux has been instructed to return 

only files that contain the word users. 

The two files that don't contain 

this string no longer appear.

Play video starting at :4:20 and follow transcript4:20

So now you have two different ways that you can 

filter in Linux while working as an analyst. 

Navigating through files and 

filtering are just part of what you need to know. 

Let's keep exploring the Linux command line.