As mentioned earlier, 

security is like preparing for a storm. 

If you identify a leak, 

the color or shape of the bucket you 

use to catch the water doesn't matter. 

What is important is mitigating the risks and 

threats to your home, by using the tools available to you.

Play video starting at ::17 and follow transcript0:17

As an entry-level security analyst, 

you'll have a lot of tools in 

your toolkit that you can 

use to mitigate potential risks.

Play video starting at ::25 and follow transcript0:25

In this video, we'll discuss 

the primary purposes and functions 

of some commonly used security tools. 

And later in the program, 

you'll have hands-on opportunities 

to practice using them. 

Before discussing tools further, 

let's briefly discuss logs, 

which are the source of data that 

the tools we'll cover are designed to organize.

Play video starting at ::46 and follow transcript0:46

A log is a record of events that 

occur within an organization's systems. 

Examples of security-related logs include records of 

employees signing into their computers 

or accessing web-based services. 

Logs help security professionals identify 

vulnerabilities and potential security breaches.

Play video starting at :1:7 and follow transcript1:07

The first tools we'll discuss are 

security information and event management tools, 

or SIEM tools. 

A SIEM tool is an application that collects and 

analyzes log data to monitor 

critical activities in an organization. 

The acronym S-I-E-M may be pronounced as 'sim' or 'seem', 

but we'll use 'sim' throughout this program. 

SIEM tools collect real-time, or instant, information, 

and allow security analysts to 

identify potential breaches as they happen.

Play video starting at :1:40 and follow transcript1:40

Imagine having to read pages and pages of 

logs to determine if there are any security threats. 

Depending on the amount of data, 

it could take hours or days. 

SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an analyst must 

review by providing alerts for 

specific types of risks and threats. 

Next, let's go over examples of commonly used SIEM tools: 

Splunk and Chronicle.

Play video starting at :2:7 and follow transcript2:07

Splunk is a data analysis platform, 

and Splunk Enterprise provides SIEM solutions. 

Splunk Enterprise is a self-hosted tool used to retain, 

analyze, and search an organization's log data.

Play video starting at :2:22 and follow transcript2:22

Another SIEM tool is Google's Chronicle. 

Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool that 

stores security data for search and analysis. 

Cloud-native means that Chronicle 

allows for fast delivery of new features.

Play video starting at :2:37 and follow transcript2:37

Both of these SIEM tools, and SIEMs in general, 

collect data from multiple places, 

then analyze and filter that data to allow 

security teams to prevent and quickly 

react to potential security threats.

Play video starting at :2:50 and follow transcript2:50

As a security analyst, 

you may find yourself using SIEM tools to 

analyze filtered events and patterns, 

perform incident analysis, 

or proactively search for threats. 

Depending on your organization's SIEM setup and risk focus, 

the tools and how they function may differ, 

but ultimately, they are all used to mitigate risk.

Play video starting at :3:12 and follow transcript3:12

Other key tools that you will use in 

your role as a security analyst, 

and that you'll have hands-on 

opportunities to use later in 

the program, are playbooks and network protocol analyzers.

Play video starting at :3:24 and follow transcript3:24

A playbook is a manual that 

provides details about any operational action, 

such as how to respond to an incident. 

Playbooks, which vary from one organization to the next, 

guide analysts in how to 

handle a security incident before, 

during, and after it has occurred. 

Playbooks can pertain to security or 

compliance reviews, access management, 

and many other organizational tasks that 

require a documented process from beginning to end.

Play video starting at :3:52 and follow transcript3:52

Another tool you may use as 

a security analyst is a network protocol analyzer, 

also called packet sniffer. 

A packet sniffer is a tool designed to 

capture and analyze data traffic within a network. 

Common network protocol analyzers 

include tcpdump and Wireshark.

Play video starting at :4:12 and follow transcript4:12

As an entry-level analyst, 

you don't have to be an expert in these tools. 

As you continue through 

this certificate program and get more hands-on practice, 

you'll continuously build your understanding of 

how to use these tools to identify, 

assess, and mitigate risks.