Imagine you're working as a security analyst and receive 

multiple alerts about suspicious activity on the network. 

You realize that you'll need to implement 

additional security measures to keep 

these alerts from becoming 

serious incidents. But where do you start?

Play video starting at ::17 and follow transcript0:17

As an analyst, you'll start by identifying 

your organization's critical assets and risks. 

Then you'll implement 

the necessary frameworks and controls.

Play video starting at ::27 and follow transcript0:27

In this video, we'll discuss how security professionals 

use frameworks to continuously identify and manage risk. 

We'll also cover how to use 

security controls to manage or reduce specific risks.

Play video starting at ::40 and follow transcript0:40

Security frameworks are guidelines 

used for building plans 

to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. 

Security frameworks provide a structured approach 

to implementing a security lifecycle. 

The security lifecycle is 

a constantly evolving set of policies 

and standards that define 

how an organization manages risks, 

follows established guidelines, 

and meets regulatory compliance, or laws.

Play video starting at :1:5 and follow transcript1:05

There are several security frameworks 

that may be used to manage 

different types of organizational 

and regulatory compliance risks. 

The purpose of security frameworks include protecting 

personally identifiable information, known as PII, 

securing financial information, 

identifying security weaknesses, 

managing organizational risks, 

and aligning security with business goals.

Play video starting at :1:31 and follow transcript1:31

Frameworks have four core components and 

understanding them will allow you to 

better manage potential risks. 

The first core component is 

identifying and documenting security goals. 

For example, an organization may have a goal to 

align with the E.U.'s General Data Protection Regulation, 

also known as GDPR. 

GDPR is a data protection law established to 

grant European citizens more control 

over their personal data. 

A security analyst may be asked to identify and document 

areas where an organization 

is out of compliance with GDPR.

Play video starting at :2:13 and follow transcript2:13

The second core component is setting 

guidelines to achieve security goals. 

For example, when implementing 

guidelines to achieve GDPR compliance, 

your organization may need to develop 

new policies for how to handle 

data requests from individual users.

Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30

The third core component of security frameworks is 

implementing strong security processes. 

In the case of GDPR, 

a security analyst working for 

a social media company may help design 

procedures to ensure the organization 

complies with verified user data requests. 

An example of this type of request is when a user 

attempts to update or delete their profile information.

Play video starting at :2:56 and follow transcript2:56

The last core component of 

security frameworks is 

monitoring and communicating results. 

As an example, you may monitor 

your organization's internal network and report 

a potential security issue affecting 

GDPR to your manager or regulatory compliance officer.

Play video starting at :3:15 and follow transcript3:15

Now that we've introduced 

the four core components of security frameworks, 

let's tie them all together. 

Frameworks allow analysts to work alongside 

other members of the security team to document, 

implement, and use the policies 

and procedures that have been created. 

It's essential for an entry-level analyst to understand 

this process because it directly affects 

the work they do and how they collaborate with others. 

Next, we'll discuss security controls.

Play video starting at :3:44 and follow transcript3:44

Security controls are safeguards 

designed to reduce specific security risks. 

For example, your company 

may have a guideline that requires 

all employees to complete 

a privacy training to reduce the risk of data breaches. 

As a security analyst, 

you may use a software tool to automatically 

assign and track which 

employees have completed this training.

Play video starting at :4:6 and follow transcript4:06

Security frameworks and controls are 

vital to managing security for all types of 

organizations and ensuring that everyone is 

doing their part to maintain a low level of risk.

Play video starting at :4:17 and follow transcript4:17

Understanding their purpose and how 

they are used allows analysts to 

support an organization's security goals 

and protect the people it serves.

Play video starting at :4:26 and follow transcript4:26

In the following videos, 

we'll discuss some well-known frameworks 

and principles that analysts need to 

be aware of to minimize risk and protect data and users.