Hi, I'm Kim. 

I'm a technical program manager at Google. 

I'm currently working in 

the security, mergers, and acquisitions team. 

Where I work with other companies that we purchase, 

and I help them integrate into the Google environment. 

I've held multiple roles before getting into 

cybersecurity and even technology. 

I first started working as a restaurant worker, 

and then I became an English Tutor 

for international students at my local college. 

After doing multiple internships, 

and graduating from university, 

I had my first opportunity to work in technology, 

and that's where my interests in technology, 

and eventually cybersecurity began. 

I want to tell everyone with any type of 

background that you can get into cybersecurity. 

If you're interested in protecting information, 

if you're interested in protecting people in the future, 

security is there for you. 

There are so many different roles you can do, 

and all of the skills that you have now, 

and that you've gathered previously, 

can be applicable within security. 

The skill that I use the most is 

connecting with people every day. 

I can't get anything done 

unless I connect with them the right way. 

So that's actually the biggest skill I 

lean on the most working in security. 

A piece of advice I would give 

for someone new starting in 

the cybersecurity field is to keep an open mind. 

I started out with a degree in business, 

so I didn't even feel like I was 

technical enough to be where I am today. 

And before that, all of my experiences 

were either restaurant work, 

or marketing work, or just something that 

felt like it was unrelated to technology. 

But all of that helped me and motivated me to 

actually kind of get my feet more wet into technology, 

and then eventually security. 

And before I knew it, 

that self-doubt was really 

replaced with more of a support 

from my peers and 

respect from other people that I've worked with.