Networks benefit from having rules. 

Rules ensure that data sent over 

the network gets to the right place. 

These rules are known as network protocols. 

Network protocols are a set of 

rules used by two or more devices on 

a network to describe the order of 

delivery and the structure of the data.

Play video starting at ::20 and follow transcript0:20

Let's use a scenario to demonstrate 

a few different types of network protocols 

and how they work together on a network. 

Say you want to access your favorite recipe website. 

You go to the address bar at the top of 

your browser and type in the website's address. 

For example: www.yummyrecipesforme.org. 

Before you gain access to the website, 

your device will establish 

communications with a web server. 

That communication uses a protocol called 

the Transmission Control Protocol, or TCP. 

TCP is an internet communications protocol that allows 

two devices to form a connection and stream data.

Play video starting at ::56 and follow transcript0:56

TCP also verifies both devices 

before allowing any further communications to take place. 

This is often referred to as a handshake. 

Once communication is established using a TCP handshake, 

a request is made to the network. 

Using our example, we have requested 

data from the Yummy Recipes For Me server. 

Their servers will respond to that request and send 

data packets back to 

your device so that you can view the web page.

Play video starting at :1:23 and follow transcript1:23

As data packets move across the network, 

they move between network devices such as routers. 

The Address Resolution Protocol, or ARP, is used to 

determine the MAC address of 

the next router or device on the path. 

This ensures that the data gets to the right place. 

Now the communication has been 

established and the destination device is known, 

it's time to access the Yummy Recipes For Me website.

Play video starting at :1:46 and follow transcript1:46

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure, or HTTPS, is 

a network protocol that provides a secure method of 

communication between client and website servers. 

It allows your web browser to securely send a request 

for a webpage to the Yummy Recipes For Me server 

and receive a webpage as a response.

Play video starting at :2:5 and follow transcript2:05

Next comes a protocol called the 

Domain Name System, or DNS, 

which is a network protocol that translate 

internet domain names into IP addresses. 

The DNS protocol sends 

the domain name and the web address to 

a DNS server that retrieves 

the IP address of the website you were trying to access, 

in this case, Yummy Recipes For Me. 

The IP address is included as a destination address for 

the data packets traveling to 

the Yummy Recipes For Me web server. 

So just by visiting one website, 

the device on your networks are 

using four different protocols: 

TCP, ARP, HTTPS, and DNS.

Play video starting at :2:43 and follow transcript2:43

These are just some of the protocols 

used in network communications. 

To help you learn more about the different protocols, 

we'll discuss them further 

in an upcoming course material.

Play video starting at :2:51 and follow transcript2:51

But how do these protocols relate to security? 

Well, on the Yummy Recipes For Me website example, 

we used HTTPS, which is 

a secure protocol that 

requests a webpage from a web server. 

HTTPS encrypts data using 

the Secure Sockets Layer and Transport Layer Security, 

otherwise known as SSL/TLS. 

This helps keep the information secure from 

malicious actors who want to steal valuable information.

Play video starting at :3:16 and follow transcript3:16

That's a lot of information and 

a lot of protocols to remember. 

Throughout your career as a security analyst, 

you'll become more familiar with 

network protocols and use them in your daily activities.