Congratulations on completing the first course! 

We've come so far and covered so 

much about a really exciting industry.

Play video starting at ::9 and follow transcript0:09

I find cybersecurity to be exciting because it's dynamic. 

There are always new puzzles to solve, and 

the work of protecting our users is worthwhile.

Play video starting at ::18 and follow transcript0:18

Before we move on, let's take a moment to 

celebrate and reflect on what we've covered. 

First, we introduced core security concepts, 

including what security is and why it matters. 

We also discussed what 

an entry-level security analyst 

does and some skills related to the role.

Play video starting at ::35 and follow transcript0:35

Then, we transitioned to eight security domains, 

which include security and risk management, 

asset security, and security operations.

Play video starting at ::44 and follow transcript0:44

Next, we highlighted security frameworks and controls. 

Specifically, the CIA triad model 

and the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.

Play video starting at ::53 and follow transcript0:53

Finally, we explored common tools and 

programming languages used by 

security analysts, such as SIEMs, 

playbooks, SQL, and Python.

Play video starting at :1:3 and follow transcript1:03

I hope you're proud of the work you've done so far. 

No matter what direction 

you take in the security industry, 

everything you've learned lays 

the foundation for the next phase of your career. 

And, as you move through this program, 

you'll have the chance to develop your skills further.

Play video starting at :1:19 and follow transcript1:19

In the next course, we'll provide more details about 

several of the topics introduced in this course.

Play video starting at :1:26 and follow transcript1:26

Hi, I'm Ashley, and I will be guiding you 

through the next course of this certificate program. 

We'll discuss security domains and 

business operations in greater detail.

Play video starting at :1:37 and follow transcript1:37

I'm so glad I was able to 

be here for the beginning of your journey. 

You're off to a great start. 

I'm excited for you to reach 

your goal of joining the security industry!