As you might remember from earlier in the program, 

the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 

NIST, provides many frameworks that are used by 

security professionals to manage 

risks, threats, and vulnerabilities.

Play video starting at ::17 and follow transcript0:17

In this video, we're going to focus on 

NIST's Risk Management Framework or RMF. 

As an entry-level analyst, 

you may not engage in all of these steps, 

but it's important to be familiar with this framework. 

Having a solid foundational understanding 

of how to mitigate and manage risks can 

set yourself apart from other candidates as you 

begin your job search in the field of security.

Play video starting at ::44 and follow transcript0:44

There are seven steps in the RMF: prepare, categorize, 

select, implement, assess, authorize, and monitor.

Play video starting at ::59 and follow transcript0:59

Let's start with Step one, prepare. 

Prepare refers to activities that are necessary to manage 

security and privacy risks before a breach occurs. 

As an entry-level analyst, 

you'll likely use this step to monitor for risks and 

identify controls that can be used to reduce those risks.

Play video starting at :1:20 and follow transcript1:20

Step two is categorize, 

which is used to develop 

risk management processes and tasks. 

Security professionals then use those processes and 

develop tasks by thinking about how the confidentiality, 

integrity, and availability of 

systems and information can be impacted by risk. 

As an entry-level analyst, 

you'll need to be able to understand how 

to follow the processes established 

by your organization to reduce risks to 

critical assets, such as private customer information.

Play video starting at :1:56 and follow transcript1:56

Step three is select. 

Select means to choose, customize, 

and capture documentation of 

the controls that protect an organization. 

An example of the select step would be keeping 

a playbook up-to-date or helping to 

manage other documentation that allows you and 

your team to address issues more efficiently.

Play video starting at :2:19 and follow transcript2:19

Step four is to implement 

security and privacy plans for the organization. 

Having good plans in place is essential for 

minimizing the impact of ongoing security risks. 

For example, if you notice a pattern of 

employees constantly needing password resets, 

implementing a change to 

password requirements may help solve this issue.

Play video starting at :2:45 and follow transcript2:45

Step five is assess. 

Assess means to determine if 

established controls are implemented correctly. 

An organization always wants 

to operate as efficiently as possible. 

So it's essential to take the time to 

analyze whether the implemented protocols, 

procedures, and controls that are in 

place are meeting organizational needs. 

During this step, analysts identify 

potential weaknesses and determine 

whether the organization's tools, 

procedures, controls, 

and protocols should be 

changed to better manage potential risks.

Play video starting at :3:26 and follow transcript3:26

Step six is authorize. 

Authorize means being accountable for 

the security and privacy risks that 

may exist in an organization. 

As an analyst, 

the authorization step could involve generating reports, 

developing plans of action, 

and establishing project milestones that are 

aligned to your organization's security goals.

Play video starting at :3:52 and follow transcript3:52

Step seven is monitor. 

Monitor means to be aware of how systems are operating. 

Assessing and maintaining technical operations 

are tasks that analysts complete daily. 

Part of maintaining a low level of 

risk for an organization is 

knowing how the current systems support 

the organization's security goals. 

If the systems in place don't meet those goals, 

changes may be needed.

Play video starting at :4:21 and follow transcript4:21

Although it may not be 

your job to establish these procedures, 

you will need to make sure 

they're working as intended so that 

risks to the organization itself, 

and the people it serves, are minimized.