Technology is rapidly changing and 

so are the tactics and techniques that attackers use. 

As digital infrastructure evolves, 

security professionals are expected to continually grow 

their skills in order to 

protect and secure sensitive information. 

In this video, we'll discuss 

some job responsibilities of 

an entry-level security analyst.

Play video starting at ::25 and follow transcript0:25

So, what do security analysts do? 

Security analysts are responsible for 

monitoring and protecting information and systems.

Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34

Now, we'll discuss three primary responsibilities 

of a security analyst, 

starting with protecting computer and network systems. 

Protecting computer and network systems requires 

an analyst to monitor an organization's internal network. 

If a threat is detected, then 

an analyst is generally the first to respond. 

Analysts also often take part in exercises to 

search for weaknesses in an organization's own systems.

Play video starting at :1:2 and follow transcript1:02

For example, a security analyst may 

contribute to penetration testing or ethical hacking. 

The goal is to penetrate or hack 

their own organization's internal network 

to identify vulnerabilities and 

suggest ways to strengthen their security measures.

Play video starting at :1:19 and follow transcript1:19

Think of it like this. 

After you lock your car, 

you check the door handles to make sure 

no one can access any valuables you keep inside.

Play video starting at :1:28 and follow transcript1:28

Security analysts also proactively work to 

prevent threats from happening in the first place. 

One way they do this is by working with 

information technology, or IT, teams to install 

prevention software for the purposes of 

identifying risks and vulnerabilities.

Play video starting at :1:46 and follow transcript1:46

Analysts may also be involved 

in software and hardware development. 

They'll often work with development teams to 

support product security by setting up 

appropriate processes and systems to 

meet the organization's data protection needs.

Play video starting at :2: and follow transcript2:00

The last task we'll discuss is 

conducting periodic security audits. 

A security audit is 

a review of an organization's security records, 

activities, and other related documents. 

For example, an analyst may 

examine in-house security issues, 

such as making sure that confidential information, 

like individual computer passwords, 

isn't available to all employees.

Play video starting at :2:23 and follow transcript2:23

Phew, that was a lot to cover! 

But hopefully you have a general idea of what 

entry-level security analysts do on a day-to-day basis.

Play video starting at :2:32 and follow transcript2:32

Security analysts are 

an important part of any organization. 

Their daily tasks protect small businesses, 

large companies, 

nonprofit organizations, and government agencies. 

They also help to ensure that the people 

served by those organizations remain safe.