Let me start with a quick question that may 

seem unrelated to security. 

Do you have a favorite building? 

And what is it about 

its architecture that impresses you the most? 

The windows? The structure of the walls? 

Just like buildings, operating systems also have 

an architecture and are made up of 

discrete components that work together to form the whole. 

In this video, we're going to look at 

all the components that together make up Linux.

Play video starting at ::27 and follow transcript0:27

The components of Linux include the user, applications, 

the shell, the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, 

the kernel, and the hardware. 

Don't worry—we'll go into 

these components one by one together.

Play video starting at ::39 and follow transcript0:39

First, you are the user. 

The user is the person interacting with the computer. 

In Linux, you're the first element 

to the architecture of the operating system. 

You're initiating the tasks or 

commands that the OS is going to execute. 

Linux is a multi-user system. 

This means that more than one user can 

use the system's resources at the same time.

Play video starting at :1:2 and follow transcript1:02

The second element of the architecture 

is the applications within a system. 

An application is a program 

that performs a specific task, 

such as a word processor or a calculator. 

You might hear the word "applications" 

and "programs" used interchangeably. 

As an example, 

one popular Linux application that 

we'll learn more about later is Nano. 

Nano is a text editor. 

This simple application helps 

you keep notes on the screen. 

Linux applications are commonly 

distributed through package managers. 

We'll learn more about this process later.

Play video starting at :1:36 and follow transcript1:36

The next component in the architecture 

of Linux is the shell. 

This is an important element because 

it is how you will communicate with the system. 

The shell is a command line interpreter. 

It processes commands and outputs the results. 

This might sound familiar. 

Previously, we learned 

about the two types of user interfaces: 

the GUI and the CLI. 

You can think of the shell as a CLI.

Play video starting at :1:59 and follow transcript1:59

Another element of the architecture of 

Linux is the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, 

or FHS. It's 

the component of the Linux OS that organizes data. 

An easy way for you to think about 

the FHS is to think about it as a filing cabinet of data. 

The FHS is how data is stored in a system. 

It's a way to organize data so that it can be 

found when the data is accessed by the system.

Play video starting at :2:24 and follow transcript2:24

That brings us to the kernel. 

The kernel is a component of 

the Linux OS that manages processes and memory. 

The kernel communicates with the hardware 

to execute the commands sent by the shell. 

The kernel uses drivers to enable 

applications to execute tasks. 

The Linux kernel helps ensure that the system 

allocates resources more efficiently 

and makes the system work faster.

Play video starting at :2:47 and follow transcript2:47

Finally, the last component of 

the architecture is the hardware. 

Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. 

You can compare this to software applications 

which can be downloaded into a system. 

The hardware in your computer are things 

like the CPU, mouse, and keyboard.

Play video starting at :3:5 and follow transcript3:05

Congratulations! 

We've now covered the architecture 

of Linux. An understanding of 

these components will help you 

become increasingly familiar with Linux.