Now that we've discussed the structure of 

a network and how communications takes place, 

it's important for you to know how 

the security professionals identify 

problems that might arise.

Play video starting at ::11 and follow transcript0:11

The TCP/IP model is a framework that is used to 

visualize how data is 

organized and transmitted across the network. 

The TCP/IP model has four layers. 

The four layers are: the network access layer, 

the internet layer, the transport layer, 

and the application layer.

Play video starting at ::28 and follow transcript0:28

Knowing how the TCP/IP model organizes network activity 

allows security professionals to 

monitor and secure against risks.

Play video starting at ::36 and follow transcript0:36

Let's examine these layers one at a time.

Play video starting at ::38 and follow transcript0:38

Layer one is the network access layer. 

The network access layer deals with creation of 

data packets and their transmission across a network. 

This includes hardware devices connected to 

physical cables and switches 

that direct data to its destination.

Play video starting at ::52 and follow transcript0:52

Layer two is the internet layer. 

The internet layer is where IP addresses are attached to 

data packets to indicate 

the location of the sender and receiver. 

The internet layer also focuses 

on how networks connect to each other. 

For example, data packets 

containing information that determine whether 

they will stay on the LAN or will be sent 

to a remote network, like the internet.

Play video starting at :1:13 and follow transcript1:13

The transport layer includes protocols to 

control the flow of traffic across a network. 

These protocols permit or deny communication with 

other devices and include 

information about the status of the connection. 

Activities of this layer include error control, 

which ensures data is flowing 

smoothly across the network.

Play video starting at :1:32 and follow transcript1:32

Finally, at the application layer, 

protocols determine how the data packets 

will interact with receiving devices. 

Functions that are organized at application layer 

include file transfers and email services.

Play video starting at :1:45 and follow transcript1:45

Now you have an understanding of 

the TCP/IP model and its 

four layers. Meet you in the next video.