Hi, I'm Phil I'm the Chief 

Information Security Officer for Google Cloud, 

and a big part of that is, of course, cybersecurity. 

So, in cyber you've always got to learn, 

you've always got to stay up to date for 

the simple reason that technology and 

business and the world of 

our, kind of digital lives is just always changing. 

The online services that you use 

today are probably very different 

even just when what they were 12 months ago. 

In the mid '90s, I worked on one of 

the world's first internet banking systems. 

And essentially we were building and 

coding all of the security ourselves. 

I remember working on the first web browsers, 

the first web servers, 

the first implementations of encryption on the Internet. 

This was even before Google even existed. 

And so this was the very beginning of 

the Internet and we were literally kind of assembling 

and building this and learning how to do 

it as we went along. 

When you are first getting into cybersecurity, 

it's important to not get overwhelmed. 

It's a very big space. 

And all of us started off at where you are today. 

And we had to learn into that. 

At one point, I didn't know Linux, 

I didn't know how to program. 

I didn't know various parts of other operating systems. 

And I had to learn step-by-step, 

how all of that worked and 

gradually build up that knowledge over time. 

And even now I still have to 

look things up occasionally because 

I don't keep everything in my head 

all at once and that's totally fine. 

When you're approaching a new situation, 

you're always going to have a degree of anxiety 

about whether you're going to be 

able to learn it quickly enough. 

And generally, with enough experience, 

you're gradually comfortable that you will. 

But again, this is important to remember that you don't 

have to learn everything about everything all at once. 

Most of the time you learn enough to 

be enough of value in the initial part of the process, 

then you learn as you go. 

Start off by writing a few lines of 

simple code or looking at 

somebody else's code and trying to 

understand what it does and then change it a 

little bit and just incrementally work into this. 

Build that foundation of knowledge 

that gives you the ability to learn other things, 

and I think things will stem from that.