Let's make some branches! 

What do I mean by that? 

Well, in a previous video, 

we discussed root directories and 

how other subdirectories branch 

off of the root directory. 

Let's think again about 

the file directory system as a tree. 

The subdirectories are the branches of the tree. 

They're all connected from the same root 

but can grow to make a complex tree. 

In this video, we'll create 

directories and files and learn how to modify them.

Play video starting at ::30 and follow transcript0:30

When it comes to working with data in 

security, organization is key. 

If we know where information is located, 

it makes it easier to detect 

issues and keep information safe. 

In a previous video, 

we've already discussed navigating between directories, 

but let's take a moment to 

examine directories more closely. 

It's possible you're familiar with the concept 

of folders for organizing information. 

In Linux, we have directories. 

Directories help organize files and subdirectories. 

For example, within a directory for reports, 

an analyst may need to create two subdirectories: 

one for drafts and one for final reports.

Play video starting at :1:11 and follow transcript1:11

Now that we know why we need directories, 

let's take a look at 

some essential Linux commands for 

managing directories and files. 

First, let's take note of 

commands for creating and removing directories. 

The mkdir command creates a new directory. 

In contrast, rmdir removes or deletes a directory. 

A helpful feature of this command is 

its built-in warning that lets you 

know a directory is not empty. 

This saves you from accidentally deleting files. 

Next, you'll use 

other commands for creating and removing files. 

The touch command creates a new file, 

and then the rm command removes or deletes a file. 

And last, we have our commands for copying 

and moving files or directories. 

The mv command moves a file or directory to new location, 

and cp copies a file or directory into a new location.

Play video starting at :2:11 and follow transcript2:11

Now, we're ready to try out these commands. 

First, let's use the pwd command, 

and then let's display the names of the files and 

directories in the analyst directory with the ls command. 

Imagine that we no longer need 

the oldreports directory that 

appears among the file contents. 

Let's take a look at how to remove it. 

We input the rmdir command and follow it with 

the name of the directory we want to remove: oldreports. 

We can use the ls command to confirm that 

oldreports has been deleted 

and no longer appears among the contents.

Play video starting at :2:48 and follow transcript2:48

Now, let's make another change. 

We want a new directory for drafts of reports. 

We need to use the command: mkdir 

and specify a name for this directory: drafts. 

If we input ls again, 

we'll notice the new directory drafts 

included among the contents of the analyst directory. 

Let's change into this new directory 

by entering: cd drafts. 

If we run ls, 

it doesn't return any output, 

indicating that this directory is currently empty. 

But next, we'll add some files to it. 

Let's say we want to draft new reports on 

recently installed email and OS patches. 

To create these files, 

we input: touch email_patches.txt 

and then: touch OS_patches.txt.

Play video starting at :3:45 and follow transcript3:45

Running ls indicates that 

these files are now in the drafts directory. 

What if we realize that we only need a new report on 

OS patches and we want 

to delete the email patches report? 

To do this, we input the rm command and specify the file 

to delete as: email_patches.txt. 

Running ls confirms that it's been deleted. 

Now, let's focus on our commands for moving and copying. 

We realized that we have a file called email 

policy in the reports folder 

that is currently in draft format. 

We want to move it into the newly created drafts folder. 

To do this, we need to change 

into the directory that currently has that file.

Play video starting at :4:35 and follow transcript4:35

Running ls in that directory indicates that it contains 

several files, including email_policy.txt. 

Then to move that file, 

we'll enter the mv command followed by two arguments. 

The first argument 

after mv identifies the file to be moved. 

The second argument indicates where to move it. 

If we change directories into 

drafts and then display its contents, 

we'll notice that the email policy file 

has been moved to this directory. 

We'll change back into reports. 

Displaying the file contents confirms that 

email_policy is no longer there.

Play video starting at :5:20 and follow transcript5:20

Okay, one more thing. vulnerabilities.txt is 

a file that we want to keep in the reports directory. 

But since it affects an upcoming project, 

we also want to copy it into the project's directory. 

Since we're already in the directory that has this file, 

we'll use the cp command to 

copy it into the projects directory. 

Notice that the first argument 

indicates which file to copy, 

and the second argument provides 

the path to the directory that it will be copied into. 

When we press Enter, 

this copies the vulnerabilities file into 

the projects directory while also 

leaving the original within reports. 

Isn't it cool what we can do with these commands?

Play video starting at :6:5 and follow transcript6:05

Now, let's focus on 

one more concept related to modifying files. 

In addition to using commands, 

you can also use applications to help you edit files. 

As a security analyst, 

file editors are often necessary for 

your daily tasks, like writing or editing reports. 

A popular file editor is nano. 

It's good for beginners. 

You can access this tool through the nano command. 

Let's get familiar with nano together. 

We'll add a title to 

our new draft report: OS_patches.txt. 

First, we change into 

the directory containing that file, 

then we input nano 

followed by the name of the file we want 

to edit: OS_patches.txt. 

This brings up the nano file editor with that file open. 

For now, we'll just enter 

the title OS Patches by typing this into the editor. 

We need to save this before 

returning to the command line, and to do so, 

we press Ctrl+O 

and then enter to save it with the current file name. 

Then to exit, we press Ctrl+X.

Play video starting at :7:19 and follow transcript7:19

Great work! 

We've covered a lot of topics here—from 

creating and removing directories and files 

to copying or moving them, 

and just now, 

we've added editing files. 

You're well on your way to learning Linux commands!