Companies have traditionally owned their network devices, and 

kept them in their own office buildings. 

But now, a lot of companies are using third-party providers to manage their networks.

Play video starting at ::12 and follow transcript0:12

Why? 

Well, this model helps companies save money while giving them access to more network 

resources. 

The growth of cloud computing is helping many companies reduce costs and 

streamline their network operations.

Play video starting at ::24 and follow transcript0:24

Cloud computing is the practice of using remote servers, applications, and network 

services that are hosted on the internet instead of on local physical devices.

Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34

Today, the number of businesses that use cloud computing is increasing every year, 

so it's important to understand how cloud networks function and how to secure them.

Play video starting at ::44 and follow transcript0:44

Cloud providers offer an alternative to traditional on-premise networks, and 

allow organizations to have the benefits of the traditional network without storing 

the devices and managing the network on their own.

Play video starting at ::55 and follow transcript0:55

A cloud network is a collection of servers or computers that stores resources and 

data in a remote data center that can be accessed via the internet. 

Because companies don't house the servers at their physical location, 

these servers are referred to as being "in the cloud".

Play video starting at :1:11 and follow transcript1:11

Traditional networks host web servers from a business in its physical location. 

However, cloud networks are different from traditional networks because they use remote servers, 

which allow online services and web applications 

to be used from any geographic location. 

Cloud security will become increasingly relevant to many security professionals as 

more organizations migrate to cloud services.

Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34

Cloud service providers offer cloud computing to maintain applications. 

For example, they provide on-demand storage and 

processing power that their customers only pay as needed. 

They also provide business and 

web analytics that organizations can use to monitor their web traffic and sales.

Play video starting at :1:51 and follow transcript1:51

With the transition to cloud networking, I have witnessed an overlap of identity-based 

security on top of the more traditional network-based solutions. 

This meant that my focus needed to be on verifying both where the traffic is coming from 

and the identity that is coming with it.

Play video starting at :2:5 and follow transcript2:05

More organizations are moving their network services to the cloud to save money and simplify 

their operations. 

As this trend has grown, 

cloud security has become a significant aspect of network security.