Welcome! Before you can understand the importance of securing a network, 

you need to know what a network is.

Play video starting at ::9 and follow transcript0:09

A network is a group of connected devices. 

At home, the devices connected to your network might be your laptop, 

cell phones, and smart devices, like your refrigerator or air conditioner. 

In an office, devices like workstations, printers, and 

servers all connect to the network. 

The devices on a network can communicate with each other over network cables, or 

wireless connections. 

Networks in your home and office can communicate with networks in other locations, 

and the devices on them.

Play video starting at ::39 and follow transcript0:39

Devices need to find each other on a network to establish communications. 

These devices will use unique addresses, or identifiers, to locate each other. 

The addresses will ensure that communications happens with 

the right device. 

These are called the IP and MAC addresses.

Play video starting at ::58 and follow transcript0:58

Devices can communicate on two types of networks: 

a local area network, also known as a LAN, 

and a wide area network, also known as a WAN.

Play video starting at :1:8 and follow transcript1:08

A local area network, or LAN, 

spans a small area like an office building, a school, or a home. 

For example, when a personal device like your cell phone or tablet 

connects to the WIFI in your house, they form a LAN. 

The LAN then connects to the internet.

Play video starting at :1:24 and follow transcript1:24

A wide area network or WAN spans a large geographical area like a city, state, 

or country. 

You can think of the internet as one big WAN. 

An employee of a company in San Francisco can communicate and 

share resources with another employee in Dublin, Ireland over the WAN.

Play video starting at :1:42 and follow transcript1:42

Now that you've learned about the structure and types of networks, 

meet me in an upcoming video to learn about the devices that connect to them.