As we discussed previously, 

organizations use a variety of tools, such as SIEMs, 

playbooks, and packet sniffers to better manage, 

monitor, and analyze security threats. 

But those aren't the only tools in an analyst's toolkit. 

Analysts also use programming languages and 

operating systems to accomplish essential tasks.

Play video starting at ::21 and follow transcript0:21

In this video, we'll introduce you to Python and 

SQL programming, and the Linux operating system. 

All of which you'll have an opportunity to practice 

using later in the certificate program.

Play video starting at ::32 and follow transcript0:32

Organizations can use programming to create 

a specific set of instructions 

for a computer to execute tasks. 

Programming allows analysts to 

complete repetitive tasks and 

processes with a high degree of accuracy and efficiency. 

It also helps reduce the risk of human error, and can 

save hours or days 

compared to performing the work manually. 

Now that you're aware of what 

programming languages are used for, 

let's discuss 

a specific and related operating system called 

Linux, and two programming languages: SQL and Python.

Play video starting at :1:5 and follow transcript1:05

Linux is an open-source, or 

publicly available, operating system. 

Unlike other operating systems you may be familiar with, 

for example MacOS or Windows, 

Linux relies on a command line 

as the primary user interface. 

Linux itself is not a programming language, 

but it does allow for the use of 

text-based commands between the user 

and the operating system. 

You'll learn more about Linux later in the program.

Play video starting at :1:32 and follow transcript1:32

A common use of Linux for 

entry-level security analysts is 

examining logs to better 

understand what's occurring in a system. 

For example, you might 

find yourself using commands to review 

an error log when investigating 

uncommonly high network traffic.

Play video starting at :1:49 and follow transcript1:49

Next, let's discuss SQL. 

SQL stands for Structured Query Language. 

SQL is a programming language used to create, 

interact with, and request information from a database. 

A database is an organized collection 

of information or data. 

There may be millions of data points in a database. 

So an entry-level security analyst would use SQL to 

filter through the data points 

to retrieve specific information.

Play video starting at :2:17 and follow transcript2:17

The last programming language we'll introduce is Python. 

Security professionals can use 

Python to perform tasks that are 

repetitive and time-consuming and that 

require a high level of detail and accuracy.

Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30

As a future analyst, 

it's important to understand that 

every organization's toolkit may be 

somewhat different based on their security needs. 

The main point is that you're familiar with 

some industry standard tools because that will show 

employers that you have the ability to learn how to use 

their tools to protect 

the organization and the people it serves.

Play video starting at :2:49 and follow transcript2:49

You're doing great! 

Later in the course, you'll learn more about Linux and 

programming languages, and you'll practice 

using these tools in security-related scenarios.