Hi, welcome back! 

Previously, we discussed frameworks 

and controls in general. 

In this video, you'll learn about 

specific frameworks and controls that organizations 

can voluntarily use to minimize 

risks to their data and to protect users. 

Let's get started!

Play video starting at ::19 and follow transcript0:19

The CIA triad is a foundational model 

that helps inform how organizations consider 

risk when setting up systems and security policies. 

CIA stands for confidentiality, 

integrity, and availability.

Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34

Confidentiality means that only authorized users 

can access specific assets or data. 

For example, strict access controls that 

define who should and should not have access to data, 

must be put in place to ensure 

confidential data remains safe.

Play video starting at ::52 and follow transcript0:52

Integrity means the data is 

correct, authentic, and reliable. 

To maintain integrity, 

security professionals can use a form of 

data protection like encryption 

to safeguard data from being tampered with.

Play video starting at :1:6 and follow transcript1:06

Availability means data is 

accessible to those who are authorized to access it. 

Let's define a term that came up during 

our discussion of the CIA triad:

Play video starting at :1:16 and follow transcript1:16

asset.

Play video starting at :1:17 and follow transcript1:17

An asset is an item perceived as having value to an organization.

Play video starting at :1:21 and follow transcript1:21

And value is determined by the cost 

associated with the asset in question.

Play video starting at :1:25 and follow transcript1:25

For example, an application that stores sensitive data, 

such as social security numbers or bank accounts, 

is a valuable asset to an organization. 

It carries more risk and therefore requires 

tighter security controls in comparison 

to a website that shares publicly available news content. 

As you may remember, 

earlier in the course, 

we discussed frameworks and controls in general. 

Now, we'll discuss a specific framework developed by 

the U.S.-based National 

Institute of Standards and Technology: 

the Cybersecurity Framework, also 

referred to as the NIST CSF. 

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is 

a voluntary framework that consists of standards, 

guidelines, and best practices 

to manage cybersecurity risk.

Play video starting at :2:10 and follow transcript2:10

It's important to become familiar with this framework 

because security teams use it as

Play video starting at :2:15 and follow transcript2:15

a baseline to manage short and long-term risk. 

Managing and mitigating risks and protecting 

an organization's assets from 

threat actors are key goals for security professionals. 

Understanding the different motives 

a threat actor may have, 

alongside identifying your organization's 

most valuable assets is important. 

Some of the most dangerous threat actors 

to consider are disgruntled employees. 

They are the most dangerous because they often have 

access to sensitive information 

and know where to find it. 

In order to reduce this type of risk, 

security professionals would use 

the principle of availability, 

as well as organizational guidelines 

based on frameworks to ensure 

staff members can only access 

the data they need to perform their jobs.

Play video starting at :2:59 and follow transcript2:59

Threat actors originate from all across the globe, 

and a diverse workforce of security professionals 

helps organizations identify attackers' intentions. 

A variety of perspectives can assist organizations in 

understanding and mitigating 

the impact of malicious activity. 

That concludes our introduction to 

the CIA triad and NIST CSF framework, 

which are used to develop processes to 

secure organizations and the people they serve. 

You may be asked in an interview if you 

know about security frameworks and principles. 

Or you may be asked to explain how they're 

used to secure organizational assets. 

In either case, throughout this program, 

you'll have multiple opportunities 

to learn more about them 

and apply what we've discussed to real-world situations. 

Coming up, we'll discuss 

the ethics of security. See you soon!