In this video, you'll learn about 

the common devices that make up 

a network. Let's get started.

Play video starting at ::7 and follow transcript0:07

A hub is a network device that 

broadcasts information to every device on the network. 

Think of a hub like a radio tower that broadcasts 

a signal to any radio tuned to the correct frequency.

Play video starting at ::19 and follow transcript0:19

Another network device is a switch. 

A switch makes connections between 

specific devices on a network by sending 

and receiving data between them. 

A switch is more intelligent than a hub. 

It only passes data to the intended destination. 

This makes switches more secure than hubs, 

and enables them to control the flow of traffic 

and improve network performance.

Play video starting at ::42 and follow transcript0:42

Another device that we'll discuss is a router. 

A router is a network device that 

connects multiple networks together.

Play video starting at ::49 and follow transcript0:49

For example, if a computer in one network 

wants to send information to a tablet on another network, 

then the information will be transferred as follows: 

First, the information travels 

from the computer to the router. 

Then, the router reads the destination address, 

and forwards the data to the intended network's router. 

Finally, the receiving router 

directs that information to the tablet.

Play video starting at :1:11 and follow transcript1:11

Finally, let's discuss modems. 

A modem is a device that connects 

your router to the internet, 

and brings internet access to the LAN.

Play video starting at :1:19 and follow transcript1:19

For example, if a computer from one network wants to send 

information to a device on a network 

in a different geographic location, 

it would be transferred as follows: 

The computer would send information to the router, 

and the router would then transfer 

the information through the modem to the internet. 

The intended recipient's modem receives the information, 

and transfers it to the router. 

Finally, the recipient's router forwards 

that information to the destination device.

Play video starting at :1:46 and follow transcript1:46

Network tools such as hubs, switches, 

routers, and modems are physical devices. 

However, many functions performed by 

these physical devices can be 

completed by virtualization tools.

Play video starting at :2: and follow transcript2:00

Virtualization tools are pieces of 

software that perform network operations. 

Virtualization tools carry out operations 

that would normally be completed by a hub, switch, 

router, or modem, 

and they are offered by Cloud service providers. 

These tools provide opportunities for 

cost savings and scalability. 

You'll learn more about them later 

in the certificate program.

Play video starting at :2:23 and follow transcript2:23

Now you've explored some common devices 

that make up a network. Coming up, 

you're going to learn more about cloud computing, 

and how networks can be designed using cloud services.