Welcome back. Before we get 

into specific Linux commands, let's 

explore in more detail the basics of 

communicating with the OS through the shell. 

Being able to utilize Linux commands is 

a foundational skill for all security professionals. 

As a security analyst, you will work with 

server logs and you'll need to know how to navigate, 

manage and analyze files 

remotely without a graphical user interface. 

In addition, you'll need to know how to 

verify and configure users and group access. 

You'll also need to give authorization 

and set file permissions. 

That means that developing skills with the command line 

is essential for your work as a security analyst. 

When we learned about the Linux 

architecture, we learned that 

the shell is one of the main components 

of an operating system. 

We also learned that there are different shells. 

In this section, we'll utilize the Bash shell.

Play video starting at ::54 and follow transcript0:54

Bash is the default shell in most Linux distributions. 

For the most part, the key Linux commands that you'll 

be learning in this section are the same across shells. 

Now that you know what shell you'll be 

using, let's go into how to write in Bash. 

As we discussed in a previous section, 

communicating with your OS is like a conversation. 

You type in commands, and the OS 

responds with an answer to your command. 

A command is an instruction 

telling the computer to do something.

Play video starting at :1:22 and follow transcript1:22

We'll try out a command in Bash. 

Notice a dollar sign before the cursor. 

This is your prompt to enter a new command. 

Some commands might tell the computer to 

find something like a specific file. 

Others might tell it to launch a program. 

Or, it might be to output a specific string of text. 

In the last section, 

when we discussed input and output, 

we explored how the echo command did this.

Play video starting at :1:47 and follow transcript1:47

Let's input the echo command again. 

You may notice that the command 

we just input is not complete. 

If we're going to use the echo command 

to output a specific string of 

texts, we need to specify what the string of text is. 

This is what arguments are for. 

An argument is specific information needed by a command. 

Some commands take multiple arguments. 

So now let's complete the echo command with an argument. 

We're learning some pretty technical stuff, 

so how about we output the words: "You are doing great!" 

We'll add this argument, and 

then we'll press enter to get the output.

Play video starting at :2:26 and follow transcript2:26

In this example, our argument was a string of text. 

Arguments can provide other types of information as well. 

One thing that is really important in Linux is that 

all commands and arguments are case sensitive. 

This includes file and directory names. 

Keep that in mind as you learn more about how to 

use Linux in your day-to-day tasks as a security analyst. 

Okay, now that we've covered the basics of 

entering Linux commands and arguments 

through the Bash shell, we're ready 

to learn some specific commands. 

This is exciting, so let's get to our next video!