As we've discussed, security professionals protect many physical and digital assets. 

These skills are desired by organizations and 

government entities because risk needs to be managed. 

Let's continue to discuss why security matters.

Play video starting at ::17 and follow transcript0:17

Security is essential for ensuring an organization's business continuity and 

ethical standing. 

There are both legal implications and 

moral considerations to maintaining an organization's security. 

A data breach, for example, 

affects everyone that is associated with the organization. 

This is because data losses or leaks can affect an organization's reputation 

as well as the lives and reputations of their users, clients, and customers. 

By maintaining strong security measures, organizations can increase user trust. 

This may lead to financial growth and ongoing business referrals.

Play video starting at ::56 and follow transcript0:56

As previously mentioned, 

organizations are not the only ones that suffer during a data breach. 

Maintaining and securing user, customer, and 

vendor data is an important part of preventing incidents that may 

expose people's personally identifiable information.

Play video starting at :1:13 and follow transcript1:13

Personally identifiable information, known as PII, is any 

information used to infer an individual's identity. 

PII includes someone's full name, date of birth, 

physical address, phone number, email address, 

internet protocol, or IP address and similar information.

Play video starting at :1:36 and follow transcript1:36

Sensitive personally identifiable information, known 

as SPII, is a specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines 

and may include social security numbers, medical or 

financial information, and biometric data, such as facial recognition. 

If SPII is stolen, this has the potential to be significantly 

more damaging to an individual than if PII is stolen.

Play video starting at :2:8 and follow transcript2:08

PII and SPII data are key assets that a threat actor will look for 

if an organization experiences a breach. 

When a person's identifiable information is compromised, leaked, 

or stolen, identity theft is the primary concern.

Play video starting at :2:25 and follow transcript2:25

Identity theft is the act of stealing personal information to commit fraud 

while impersonating a victim. 

And the primary objective of identity theft is financial gain.

Play video starting at :2:36 and follow transcript2:36

We've explored several reasons why security matters. 

Employers need security analysts like you to fill the current and 

future demand to protect data, products, and people while ensuring 

confidentiality, integrity, and safe access to information. 

This is why the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics expects the demand for 

security professionals to grow by more than 30% by the year 2030.

Play video starting at :3:5 and follow transcript3:05

So keep learning, and eventually you'll be able to do your part to create a safer and 

more secure environment for organizations and people alike!