Previously, we discussed the initial planning elements of an internal 

security audit. 

In this video, we'll cover the final elements that an entry-level analyst 

might be asked to complete.

Play video starting at ::15 and follow transcript0:15

As a reminder, the planning elements of internal security audits include 

establishing the scope and goals, then conducting a risk assessment. 

The remaining elements are completing a controls assessment, 

assessing compliance, and communicating results. 

Before completing these last three elements, you'll need to review the scope and goals, 

as well as the risk assessment, and ask yourself some questions. 

For example: What is the audit meant to achieve? Which assets are most at risk? 

Are current controls sufficient to protect those assets? 

If not, what controls and compliance regulations need to be implemented? 

Considering questions like these can support your ability 

to complete the next element: a controls assessment.

Play video starting at :1:11 and follow transcript1:11

A controls assessment involves closely reviewing an organization's existing 

assets, then evaluating potential risks to those assets, 

to ensure internal controls and processes are effective. 

To do this, entry-level analysts might be tasked with classifying 

controls into the following categories: administrative controls, 

technical controls, and physical controls.

Play video starting at :1:39 and follow transcript1:39

Administrative controls are related to the human component of cybersecurity. 

They include policies and procedures that define how an organization 

manages data, such as the implementation of password policies.

Play video starting at :1:55 and follow transcript1:55

Technical controls are hardware and software solutions used to protect assets, such 

as the use of intrusion detection systems, or IDS's, and encryption.

Play video starting at :2:8 and follow transcript2:08

Physical controls refer to measures put in place to prevent physical 

access to protected assets, such as surveillance cameras and locks.

Play video starting at :2:18 and follow transcript2:18

The next element is determining whether or 

not the organization is adhering to necessary compliance regulations. 

As a reminder, compliance regulations are laws that 

organizations must follow to ensure private data remains secure. 

In this example, the organization conducts business in the European Union and 

accepts credit card payments. 

So they need to adhere to the GDPR and 

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS.

Play video starting at :2:54 and follow transcript2:54

The final common element of an internal security audit is communication. 

Once the internal security audit is complete, results and 

recommendations need to be communicated to stakeholders. 

In general, this type of communication summarizes the scope and 

goals of the audit. 

Then, it lists existing risks and notes how quickly those risks need to be addressed. 

Additionally, it identifies compliance regulations 

the organization needs to adhere to and provides recommendations for 

improving the organization's security posture.

Play video starting at :3:35 and follow transcript3:35

Internal audits are a great way to identify gaps within an organization. 

When I worked at a previous company, my team and I conducted an internal 

password audit and found that many of the passwords were weak. 

Once we identified this issue, the compliance team took the lead and 

began enforcing stricter password policies. 

Audits are an opportunity to determine what security measures an 

organization has in place and what areas need to be improved to 

achieve the organization's desired security posture.

Play video starting at :4:13 and follow transcript4:13

Security audits are quite involved, yet of extreme value to organizations. 

Later in the course, 

you'll have an opportunity to complete elements of an internal security audit for 

a fictional company, which you can include in your professional portfolio.