Hi there, glad to have you back! 

You're halfway done with the first course, so you're making great progress.

Play video starting at ::8 and follow transcript0:08

In this section, 

we'll discuss how organizations protect themselves from threats, risks, and 

vulnerabilities by covering key principles such as: frameworks, controls, and ethics. 

To help you better understand how this relates to the role of a security analyst, 

we'll use an analogy.

Play video starting at ::26 and follow transcript0:26

Imagine you want to plant a garden. You research, plan, prepare, 

and purchase materials while considering all the things that could 

potentially present a risk to your garden. 

You establish a plan to pull weeds, spray for bugs, 

and water your plants regularly to prevent issues or incidents. 

But as the days go by, unexpected problems arise. 

The weather has been unpredictable and 

pests have been aggressively trying to infiltrate your garden.

Play video starting at ::55 and follow transcript0:55

You start implementing better ways to safeguard your garden by installing 

a surveillance camera, building a fence, and 

covering your plants with a canopy to keep your garden healthy and growing. 

Now that you have a better idea about the threats to your garden and 

how to keep your plants safe, 

you establish better policies and procedures to continuously monitor and 

safeguard your garden.

Play video starting at :1:18 and follow transcript1:18

In this way, security resembles a garden. 

It's an evolving industry that will challenge you to make continuous 

improvements to policies and procedures that help protect your organization and 

the people it serves.

Play video starting at :1:30 and follow transcript1:30

To that end, we'll introduce security frameworks and 

controls and explain why they're important. 

We'll also cover core components and specific examples of frameworks and 

controls, including the Confidentiality, Integrity, and 

Availability Triad, or CIA Triad. 

We'll end with the discussion about the ethics of security and 

share a few notable ethical concerns in the security field.

Play video starting at :1:57 and follow transcript1:57

Evolving security practices may seem a little abstract, but 

many of us use them every day. 

For example, I use security keys, which are a type of security control, 

as a second form of authentication to access my accounts. 

The keys ensure that only I can access my accounts, 

even if a password has been compromised. 

By improving confidentiality, 

they also assure me that the integrity of my accounts is intact.

Play video starting at :2:24 and follow transcript2:24

Having processes and procedures in place to organize security efforts and 

make informed decisions is important for any organization. 

I'm so excited to get started, and I hope you are too!