Welcome back! In this video, 

we're going to discuss some resources that are available 

directly through the shell and can 

help you while working in Linux. 

One of the great things about Linux is 

that you can get help right through the command line. 

The first command that can help you in this way is: man.

Play video starting at ::20 and follow transcript0:20

man displays information on 

other commands and how they work. 

The name of this command comes from the word manual. 

Let's examine this more closely by using 

man to get information about the usermod command. 

After man, we type the name of this command. 

The information that man 

returns includes a general description. 

It also contains information 

about each of usermod's options. 

For example, the option -d can be 

added to usermod to change a user's home directory. 

man provides a lot of information, 

but sometimes we just need 

a quick reference on what a command does. 

In that case, you use whatis. 

whatis displays a description 

of a command on a single line.

Play video starting at :1:8 and follow transcript1:08

Let's say you heard a co-worker 

mention a command like tail. 

You've never heard of this command before, 

but you can find out what it does. 

Simply use the command, 

whatis tail, and learn that 

it outputs the last part of files.

Play video starting at :1:24 and follow transcript1:24

Sometimes we might not even know what command to look up. 

This is where apropos can help us. 

apropos searches the manual page descriptions 

for a specified string. Let's try it out. 

Let's say you have a task that 

requires you to change a password, 

but you're not quite sure how to do this. 

If we use the apropos command with the string password, 

this will display a large number 

of commands with that word. 

This helps somewhat, 

but it still may be difficult to find what we need. 

But we can filter this by adding 

the -a option and an additional string. 

This option will return 

only the commands that contain both strings. 

In our case, since we want to change the password, 

let's look for commands with both: change and password. 

Now, the output has been 

limited to the most relevant commands.

Play video starting at :2:10 and follow transcript2:10

These commands make it a lot 

easier to navigate the Linux command line. 

As a new analyst, 

you won't have all the answers all the time, 

but you can learn where to find them.