My name is Damar, I'm a security engineer here at Google. 

I've always wanted to get into cybersecurity since I was a kid. 

A lot of the cartoons I watched, they had like floppy disks or flash drives, and 

they would put that in the computer and kind of like cause havoc. 

[LAUGH] So I always thought that was really cool. 

I've had quite a bit of jobs before coming to Google. 

I originally started out making smoothies at Jamba Juice. 

I got my first IT technological kind of job at Geek Squad and 

then eventually came here and became a security engineer. 

My advice to people trying to get into cybersecurity is it may be a lot easier 

than you think. 

[LAUGH] It definitely was a lot easier than I thought. 

Something that I learned jumping in myself is that you're not going to be able to 

learn everything all at once, and 

you're not going to need to know everything all at once. 

Linux is very important because it's broadly 

used across pretty much every company. 

You may use Linux to curate logs. 

It's a very common practice you may also use Linux to set up 

bash jobs that will help with routine tasks within Linux. 

I first got interested in learning Linux from the Jurassic Park movie. 

There's a scene in the movie where they need to reactivate the electrical doors, 

and they have to use a UNIX operating system to do so. 

So later on, I learned what UNIX was and how Linux came from it, 

and it inspired me to learn more about Linux. 

The best advice I can give someone that's trying to learn Linux and 

Linux commands is, don't get discouraged by any small hiccups that come up. 

Just keep with it. 

Stick with it. 

Think of it as when you first learned to swim, right, 

you probably weren't that great at it. 

[LAUGH] It was frustrating, and you were probably a little scared, but 

you're stuck with it and I hope that you're able to swim now. 

[LAUGH] There are a plethora of support resources when learning Linux. 

One good example is the discussion forum in the certificate course. 

Another avenue of support for learning Linux is just googling answers using 

Stack Overflow, maybe even making a Reddit post. 

I love working in cybersecurity. 

It's pretty satisfying to know that me and my team and 

then like all the other security teams here at Google are helping protect people 

online from things they may not even know about.