My name is Tina and I'm a software engineer at Google. 

As a software engineer, 

I work on an internal tool 

that serves the security engineers 

and network engineers at Google. 

Network security is important because we 

want to make sure that our network systems are 

safe and resilient to be able 

to defend against malicious hackers, 

and that we have the ability to protect our user data. 

Working with network security allows to see 

the overview of the whole company's network systems, 

which is super cool. 

My favorite part of my job is the impact I get 

to have on the community that I serve at Google. 

I would say most of my day is a lot of coding, design, 

talking to security teams and network teams on 

their priorities and their blockers 

and being able to come up with a solution. 

There are often going to be 

requests that come from network teams and 

security teams that have specific requirements on 

certain platforms or on 

a feature that they need in one of the network policies, 

and usually we would escalate that 

and try to work on a fix for that. 

One piece of advice I would give 

for someone who wants to take on 

the cybersecurity journey is to be able to 

always keep learning and be 

curious about how things work. 

Because security is an ever changing field, 

cybersecurity is definitely a team sport. 

Everybody has something to contribute, 

and especially on cybersecurity problems, 

there can be a lot of possibilities 

and a lot of different solutions to one problem. 

It's always great to be able 

to have people to brainstorm with and to 

track down issues together because things 

can get very complex sometimes, 

but it's also a fun process to be 

able to work on things together.