It's important to understand how to protect 

an organization's data and assets 

because that will be part of 

your role as a security analyst. 

Fortunately, there are principles and 

guidelines that can be used, along with 

NIST frameworks and the CIA triad, to 

help security teams minimize threats and risks.

Play video starting at ::22 and follow transcript0:22

In this video, we'll explore some Open 

Web Application Security Project, or OWASP, 

security principles that are 

useful to know as an entry-level analyst.

Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34

The first OWASP principle is to 

minimize the attack surface area. 

An attack surface refers to 

all the potential vulnerabilities 

that a threat actor could exploit, 

like attack vectors, which are pathways 

attackers use to penetrate security defenses. 

Examples of common attack vectors are 

phishing emails and weak passwords. 

To minimize the attack surface 

and avoid incidents from these types of 

vectors, security teams might disable software features, 

restrict who can access certain assets, or 

establish more complex password requirements.

Play video starting at :1:14 and follow transcript1:14

The principle of least privilege 

means making sure that users have 

the least amount of access 

required to perform their everyday tasks. 

The main reason for limiting access 

to organizational information and 

resources is to reduce the amount of 

damage a security breach could cause. 

For example, as an entry-level analyst, 

you may have access to log data, 

but may not have access to change user permissions. 

Therefore, if 

a threat actor compromises your credentials, 

they'll only be able to gain 

limited access to digital or physical assets, 

which may not be enough for them to 

deploy their intended attack.

Play video starting at :1:58 and follow transcript1:58

The next principle we'll discuss is defense in depth. 

Defense in depth means that an organization should have 

multiple security controls that 

address risks and threats in different ways. 

One example of a security control is 

multi-factor authentication, or MFA, 

which requires users to take 

an additional step beyond simply 

entering their username and 

password to gain access to an application. 

Other controls include firewalls, 

intrusion detection systems, 

and permission settings that can be 

used to create multiple points of defense, 

a threat actor must get through 

to breach an organization.

Play video starting at :2:41 and follow transcript2:41

Another principle is separation of duties, 

which can be used to prevent individuals from 

carrying out fraudulent or illegal activities. 

This principle means that no one should be given 

so many privileges that they can misuse the system. 

For example, the person in a company who signs 

the paychecks shouldn't also 

be the person who prepares them.

Play video starting at :3:6 and follow transcript3:06

Only two more principles to go! You're doing great. 

Keep security simple is 

the next principle. As the name suggests, 

when implementing security controls, 

unnecessarily complicated solutions should 

be avoided because they can become unmanageable. 

The more complex the security controls are, 

the harder it is for people to work collaboratively.

Play video starting at :3:33 and follow transcript3:33

The last principle is to fix security issues correctly. 

Technology is a great tool, 

but can also present challenges. 

When a security incident occurs, 

security professionals are expected to 

identify the root cause quickly. 

From there, it's important to correct 

any identified vulnerabilities and 

conduct tests to ensure that repairs are successful.

Play video starting at :4: and follow transcript4:00

An example of an issue is a weak password to 

access an organization's wifi 

because it could lead to a breach. 

To fix this type of security issue, 

stricter password policies could be put in place.

Play video starting at :4:15 and follow transcript4:15

I know we've covered a lot, 

but understanding these principles increases 

your overall security knowledge 

and can help you stand out as a security professional.