######   
Analytical thinking

Security analysts often use **analytical thinking**, which means to think carefully and thoroughly. Analysts use this skill when **monitoring and securing computer and network systems**, responding to potential threats, defining system privileges, and determining ways to mitigate risk.

###### Collaboration

**Collaboration** means working with stakeholders and other team members. Security analysts often use this skill when **responding to an active threat.** They'll work with others when blocking unauthorized access and ensuring any compromised systems are restored.

###### Malware prevention

When a specific threat or vulnerability is identified, an analyst might **install prevention software**, which is software that works to proactively prevent a threat from occurring. Because malware is designed to harm devices or networks, **malware prevention** is essential.

###### Communication

As an analyst prevents and encounters threats, risks, or vulnerabilities, they document and **report findings.** A report might detail attempts to secure systems, test weak points, or offer solutions for system improvement. When reporting findings, strong **communication** skills are important.

###### Understanding programming languages

Analysts may sometimes work with software development teams to analyze and support security, install software, and set up appropriate processes. When involved with **software development** projects, it can be helpful for an analyst to **understand programming languages**.

###### Using SIEM tools

When security analysts need to review vulnerabilities, they conduct a **periodic security audit.** This is a review of an organization’s records, activities, and related documents. During audits, **Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools** help analysts better understand security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.