Hi, my name is Sean. 

I'm a Technical Program Manager in Google workspace. 

I am a 30 year security veteran 

within the security space 

across six different industries. 

During your first data breach, 

the most important thing that you can 

do is keep your cool. 

Everyone around is going to be freaking out. 

If you are on 

the security team and you are managing the incident, 

you have to legitimately be the cool guy in the room. 

Be that person that has the pause in the conversation. 

Somebody might be like, do you know what's going on? 

I absolutely do. 

I think the biggest breach I've ever 

had was a phone call. 

An engineer for another financial, 

bought a server off eBay. 

That server fired it up hadn't been wiped. 

Twenty million credit card records were on it. 

That triggered a whole review 

of we had not been controlling 

for how do third parties because 

we were now outsourcing data centers. 

How do third parties wipe 

the servers that we no longer use? 

The first thing you're going to do 

is to contain the breach. 

If you are still hemorrhaging data, 

you go through your progressions 

to stop hemorrhaging data. 

So if that means shutting down a server, 

shutting down a data center, shutting down comms, 

whatever, stopping the data loss is 

that is your number one priority. 

Your job as an incident manager or as somebody working 

a breach is to stop 

the breach and then investigate the breach. 

So executing your incident management by plan is 

the most important thing that 

an entry level person can keep in mind.