My name is Chris and I'm 

the Chief Information Security Officer at Google Fiber. 

We provide high speed Internet 

to customers across the United States. 

As the chief information security officer, 

I'm responsible for making 

sure that the network stays safe, 

our customers' data stays safe and that we 

are supporting law enforcement and others as required. 

The career path was a long and winding one. 

My actual first job was working as 

a butcher at the family grocery store. 

I eventually ended up with 

a job in the computer center at college, 

which is where I learned 

a lot of my initial computer skills. 

Then when I graduated from college, 

I started off as a software developer, 

designing accounting software for 

a consulting company supporting 

the Department of Agriculture. 

Then I moved on from that to other roles, 

eventually ending up in one of 

the first Internet over cable companies. 

I ran several of their services, 

email, web services, etc. 

My stuff kept getting attacked. 

I fell into cybersecurity 

because I had to defend the things that I was building. 

I realized it was fun. 

I realized that it was a great career opportunity. 

I've just stuck with that ever since then. 

When I got into this field, 

other than a couple of books, 

there wasn't a lot of training material out there. 

There were some other people out there that I 

could ask questions of, and I could get some mentoring from. 

But as a general rule of thumb, I was on my own. 

Despite this being a fairly technical field, 

the most important thing you're going to 

learn are the connections 

you're going to make to other people. 

I made a conscious decision to become actively 

involved in some of the outside work organizations, 

the trade associations, the non profits, 

the meet ups, 

and other cybersecurity organizations. 

This enabled me to build the reputation and 

the relationships so that as my career moved along, 

people were reaching out to me saying, hey Chris, 

we have this opportunity, are you interested? 

Because the cybersecurity industry is so varied, 

it can seem like there is 

a tremendous amount you have to learn that there is 

this huge step that you have 

to take in order to get into the industry. 

That can be daunting. 

But the thing to remember is, 

once you have that fundamental level 

of skills and fundamental level of background, 

there are so many different directions you can 

go and there's so much opportunity out there. 

There's this continuous education and 

curiosity aspect of the job that is so much fun. 

It means that you are always 

having the opportunity to learn something new, 

to change directions and go in new ways because 

cybersecurity is going to be 

constantly changing. And that's part of the fun.