Imagine that you're preparing for a storm. 

You've received notification that a storm is coming. 

You prepare by gathering 

the tools and materials you'll need to stay safe. 

You make sure your windows and doors are secure. 

You assemble a first aid kit, 

tools, food and water. You're prepared. 

The storm hits and there are 

powerful winds and heavy rain. 

The storm is using its force to try and breach your home. 

You notice some water leaks 

and begin patching them quickly 

in order to minimize any risk or potential damage.

Play video starting at ::39 and follow transcript0:39

Handling a security incident is no different. 

Organizations must prepare for the storm by ensuring they 

have the tools to mitigate and 

quickly respond to outside threats. 

The objective is to minimize risk and potential damage.

Play video starting at ::56 and follow transcript0:56

As a security analyst, 

you'll work to protect 

your organization and the people it serves from 

a variety of risks and outside 

threats. And if a threat does get through, 

you and your team will provide 

a solution to remedy the situation.

Play video starting at :1:11 and follow transcript1:11

To help you better understand what this means, 

we'll define security and discuss 

the roles of security professionals in organizations.

Play video starting at :1:19 and follow transcript1:19

Let's start with some definitions: 

Cybersecurity, or security, is the practice 

of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, 

and availability of information 

by protecting networks, devices, 

people, and data from 

unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.

Play video starting at :1:39 and follow transcript1:39

For example, requiring 

complex passwords to access sites and 

services improves confidentiality by 

making it much more difficult for 

a threat actor to compromise them. 

A threat actor is any person 

or group who presents a security risk.

Play video starting at :1:57 and follow transcript1:57

Now that you know the definition of security, 

let's discuss what security teams do for an organization.

Play video starting at :2:3 and follow transcript2:03

Security protects against external and internal threats. 

An external threat is someone outside of the organization 

trying to gain access to 

private information, networks or devices.

Play video starting at :2:16 and follow transcript2:16

An internal threat comes 

from current or former employees, 

external vendors, or trusted partners. 

Often these internal threats are accidental, 

such as an employee clicking on 

a compromised link in an email. 

Other times, the internal actor intentionally engages in 

activities such as unauthorized data access 

or abusing systems for personal use.

Play video starting at :2:40 and follow transcript2:40

Experienced security professionals 

will help organizations 

mitigate or reduce the impact of threats like these.

Play video starting at :2:48 and follow transcript2:48

Security teams also ensure 

an organization meets regulatory compliance, or 

laws and guidelines, that require 

the implementation of specific security standards.

Play video starting at :2:59 and follow transcript2:59

Ensuring that organizations are in 

compliance may allow them to avoid fines 

and audits, while also upholding 

their ethical obligation to protect users.

Play video starting at :3:9 and follow transcript3:09

Security teams also maintain 

and improve business productivity. 

By establishing a plan for business continuity, 

security teams allow people to do their jobs, 

even in the case of something like a data breach.

Play video starting at :3:22 and follow transcript3:22

Being security conscious can also 

reduce expenses associated with risks, 

such as recovering from data loss or 

operational downtime, and potentially avoiding fines. 

The last benefit of security that we'll 

discuss is maintaining brand trust. 

If services or customer data are compromised, 

this can lower trust in the organization, 

damage the brand, and hurt the business in the long term. 

Loss of customer trust may 

also lead to less revenue for the business.

Play video starting at :3:51 and follow transcript3:51

Now, let's go over some common security-based roles. 

After completing this certificate program, 

here are some job titles you may want to search for: 

Security analyst or specialist, 

Cybersecurity analyst or specialist, 

Security operation center or SOC 

analyst, Information security analyst.

Play video starting at :4:12 and follow transcript4:12

You'll also learn more about the responsibilities 

associated with some of 

these job titles later in the program.

Play video starting at :4:19 and follow transcript4:19

As you may now realize, 

the field of security includes 

many topics and concepts and 

every activity you complete in 

this program moves you one step closer to a new job. 

Let's keep learning together.