In security, new technologies present new challenges. 

For every new security incident or risk, the right or 

wrong decision isn't always clear.

Play video starting at ::11 and follow transcript0:11

For example, imagine that you're working as an entry-level security analyst and 

you have received a high risk alert. 

You investigate the alert and 

discover data has been transferred without authorization.

Play video starting at ::24 and follow transcript0:24

You work diligently to identify who made the transfer and 

discover it is one of your friends from work. 

What do you do?

Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34

Ethically, as a security professional, your job is to remain unbiased and 

maintain security and confidentiality.

Play video starting at ::42 and follow transcript0:42

While it's normal to want to protect a friend, 

regardless of who the user in question may be, your responsibility and obligation 

is to adhere to the policies and protocols you've been trained to follow. 

In many cases, security teams are entrusted with greater access to data and 

information than other employees. 

Security professionals must respect that privilege and act ethically at all times.

Play video starting at :1:7 and follow transcript1:07

Security ethics are guidelines for 

making appropriate decisions as a security professional. 

As another example, if you as an analyst have the ability to grant yourself access 

to payroll data and can give yourself a raise, just because you have access to do 

so, does that mean you should? 

The answer is no. 

You should never abuse the access you've been granted and entrusted with.

Play video starting at :1:31 and follow transcript1:31

Let's discuss ethical principles that may raise questions as you navigate 

solutions for mitigating risks. 

These are confidentiality, privacy protections, and laws.

Play video starting at :1:42 and follow transcript1:42

Let's begin with the first ethical principle, confidentiality. 

Earlier we discussed confidentiality as part of the CIA triad. 

Now let's discuss how confidentiality can be applied to ethics. 

As a security professional, you'll encounter proprietary 

or private information, such as PII. 

It's your ethical duty to keep that information confidential and safe. 

For example, you may want to help out a coworker by providing computer 

system access outside of properly documented channels. 

However, this ethical violation can result in serious consequences, 

including reprimands, the loss of your professional reputation, and 

legal repercussions for both you and your friend.

Play video starting at :2:29 and follow transcript2:29

The second ethical principle to consider is privacy protections. 

Privacy protection means safeguarding personal information from 

unauthorized use. 

For example, imagine you receive a personal email after 

hours from your manager requesting a colleague's home phone number. 

Your manager explains that they can't access the employee database at the moment, 

but they need to discuss an urgent matter with that person.

Play video starting at :2:54 and follow transcript2:54

As a security analyst, your role is to follow the policies and procedures of your company, 

which in this example, state that employee information is stored 

in a secure database and should never be accessed or shared in any other format. 

So, accessing and sharing the employee's personal information would be unethical. 

In situations like this, it can be difficult to know what to do. 

So, the best response is to adhere to the policies and procedures 

set by your organization.

Play video starting at :3:24 and follow transcript3:24

A third important ethical principle we must discuss is the law. 

Laws are rules that are recognized by a community and 

enforced by a governing entity.

Play video starting at :3:33 and follow transcript3:33

For example, consider a staff member at a hospital who has been trained 

to handle PII, and SPII for compliance. 

The staff member has files with confidential data that should never be left 

unsupervised, but the staff member is late for a meeting. 

Instead of locking the files in a designated area, 

the files are left on the staff member's desk, unsupervised. 

Upon the employee's return, the files are missing. 

The staff member has just violated multiple compliance regulations, and 

their actions were unethical and illegal, since their negligence has likely resulted 

in the loss of private patient and hospital data.

Play video starting at :4:13 and follow transcript4:13

As you enter the security field, remember that technology is constantly evolving, 

and so are attackers' tactics and techniques. 

Because of this, security professionals must continue to think critically about 

how to respond to attacks.

Play video starting at :4:28 and follow transcript4:28

Having a strong sense of ethics can guide your decisions to ensure that the proper 

processes and procedures 

are followed to mitigate these continually evolving risks.