Hi! Welcome to this course 

on computing basics for security. 

My name is Kim, and I work as 

a Technical Program Manager in security. 

I grew up with computers and the internet 

but didn't really consider security as 

a career opportunity until I saw 

how it was interwoven into technology.

Play video starting at ::18 and follow transcript0:18

Before my first security job, 

I worked on a cloud application team 

and had to regularly interact with the security team. 

It was my first experience working with security, 

but the idea of protecting information and working 

with others towards that goal was exciting to me. 

As a result, I decided to work towards my CISSP, 

which led me to some new job 

opportunities at my company, 

and I was then able to move into security.

Play video starting at ::43 and follow transcript0:43

At this point, if you've been following along, 

you've already explored a variety of 

concepts useful to the security field, 

including security domains and networking. 

I'm excited to join you 

during the next part of the program. 

We'll take it slow so that you can 

understand these topics in practical ways. 

The focus of this course is computing basics. 

When you understand how 

the machines in an organization's system work, 

it helps you do your job as 

a security analyst more efficiently.

Play video starting at :1:10 and follow transcript1:10

Part of your job as a security analyst is to 

keep systems protected from possible attacks. 

You're one of the first levels of 

defense in protecting an organization's data. 

To do this effectively, 

it's helpful to understand how 

the system you're protecting works. 

In addition, you may need to 

investigate events to help correct errors in the system. 

Being familiar with Linux operating system 

and its associated commands, 

and also being able to interact with 

an organization's data through 

SQL, will help you with that.

Play video starting at :1:40 and follow transcript1:40

In this course, you'll learn about 

operating systems and how they 

relate to applications and hardware. 

Next, you'll explore 

the Linux operating system in more detail. 

Then you'll use the Linux command line 

within a security context. 

Finally, we'll discuss how you can use SQL to query 

databases while working as a security analyst. 

I'm excited to explore all of 

these topics with you. Let's get started.