Hi, I'm Toni, I'm a Security Engineering Manager. 

Our teams protect Google and 

its users from serious threats. 

Usually government-backed attackers, 

coordinated influence operations and 

serious cybercrime threat actors. 

I grew up as an army brat. 

My dad was in the military and we moved around a lot. 

I've always had an interest in security sort of generally. 

I got really hooked on international 

relations when I was in high school. 

I did a lot of Model United Nations. 

And that really sort of brought these two things together for me, 

the way that security works in the world. 

I come from a big family. 

I knew I was going to need financial 

assistance to go to college. 

And the Department of Defense provides 

a lot of educational opportunities 

that are tied to service. 

So this was a natural fit for me. 

I knew I was interested in 

this area and this was going to 

provide a career path 

into something I was passionate about. 

I started as an intelligence analyst, 

but not focused on cybersecurity. 

I worked counterinsurgency for a number of years 

and geopolitical intelligence issues. 

Eventually, as I looked and saw that 

the way that cybersecurity was starting 

to have an impact both in 

our daily lives and in 

that world of international relations, 

I got more and more drawn to it. 

Transitioning into cybersecurity was a huge shift for me. 

I came in without a solid technical background, 

had to learn a lot of that on the job and 

through self-paced learning in 

different types of courses, 

I needed to learn programming languages 

like Python and SQL, 

two of the things that we cover in this certificate, 

I needed to learn a whole new language 

about the vocabulary of 

threats and the different components 

and how those manifest technically. 

One of the things that I had to figure out very early in 

this journey is what kind of learner I was. 

I work best with a structured learning style. 

So turning to a lot of 

these online courses and resources that took 

this material and structured it sort of from 

first principles through application 

resonated very well for me. 

A lot of this was also learned on 

the job by co-workers who 

were willing to share and invest 

time in helping me understand this. 

I asked a lot of questions and I still do. 

Most of cybersecurity work is going to be learned on 

the job in the specific 

environment that you're protecting. 

So you have to work well with your teammates in order to 

be able to build that knowledge base. 

My advice would be to stay curious and keep learning, 

especially focusing on your technical skills 

and growing those throughout your career. 

It's really easy to get 

imposter syndrome in cybersecurity because it's so 

broad and mastery of 

all these different areas is a lifetime's work. 

And sometimes that imposter syndrome can 

shut us down and make it feel like, 

why bother trying to keep growing. 

I'm never going to be able to master 

this instead of motivating us. 

So keep learning, push through that fear. 

The efforts always going to be rewarded.