In this video, you'll 

learn about different types of firewalls. 

These include hardware, 

software, and cloud-based firewalls. 

You'll also learn the difference between 

a stateless and stateful firewall and 

cover some of the basic operations 

that a firewall performs. 

Finally, you will explore how 

proxy servers are used to 

add a layer of security to the network.

Play video starting at ::23 and follow transcript0:23

A firewall is a network security device that 

monitors traffic to and from your network. 

It either allows traffic or it blocks 

it based on a defined set of security rules. 

A firewall can use port filtering, 

which blocks or allows 

certain port numbers to limit unwanted communication. 

For example, it could have a rule 

that only allows communications on port 

443 for HTTPS or port 

25 for email and blocks everything else. 

These firewall settings will be determined by 

the organization's security policy.

Play video starting at ::53 and follow transcript0:53

Let's talk about a few different kinds of firewalls. 

A hardware firewall is considered the most 

basic way to defend against threats to a network. 

A hardware firewall inspects 

each data packet before it's 

allowed to enter the network. 

A software firewall performs 

the same functions as a hardware firewall, 

but it's not a physical device. 

Instead, it's a software program 

installed on a computer or on a server. 

If the software firewall is installed on a computer, 

it will analyze all the traffic 

received by that computer. 

If the software firewall is installed on a server, 

it will protect all the devices connected to the server. 

A software firewall typically costs 

less than purchasing a separate physical device, 

and it doesn't take up any extra space. 

But because it is a software program, 

it will add some processing burden 

to the individual devices.

Play video starting at :1:43 and follow transcript1:43

Organizations may choose to use a cloud-based firewall. 

Cloud service providers offer firewalls as 

a service, or FaaS, for organizations. 

Cloud-based firewalls are software firewalls 

hosted by a cloud service provider. 

Organizations can configure the firewall rules 

on the cloud service provider's interface, 

and the firewall will perform security operations on 

all incoming traffic before 

it reaches the organization’s onsite network. 

Cloud-based firewalls also protect any assets or 

processes that an organization 

might be using in the cloud.

Play video starting at :2:16 and follow transcript2:16

All the firewalls we have discussed can be 

either stateful or stateless. 

The terms "stateful" and "stateless" 

refer to how the firewall operates. 

Stateful refers to a class 

of firewall that keeps track of 

information passing through it 

and proactively filters out threats. 

A stateful firewall analyzes 

network traffic for characteristics and 

behavior that appear suspicious 

and stops them from entering the network. 

Stateless refers to a class 

of firewall that operates based on 

predefined rules and does not 

keep track of information from data packets. 

A stateless firewall only acts according to 

preconfigured rules set by the firewall administrator. 

The rules programmed by the firewall administrator tell 

the device what to accept and what to reject. 

A stateless firewall doesn't store analyzed information. 

It also doesn't discover 

suspicious trends like a stateful firewall does. 

For this reason, stateless firewalls are considered 

less secure than stateful firewalls.

Play video starting at :3:12 and follow transcript3:12

A next generation firewall, or NGFW, 

provides even more security than a stateful firewall. 

Not only does an NGFW provide 

stateful inspection of incoming and outgoing traffic, 

but it also performs more 

in-depth security functions like 

deep packet inspection and intrusion protection. 

Some NGFWs connect to 

cloud-based threat intelligence services 

so they can quickly update to 

protect against emerging cyber threats.

Play video starting at :3:35 and follow transcript3:35

Now you have a basic understanding 

of firewalls and how they work. 

We learned that firewalls can be hardware or software. 

We also discussed the difference between 

a stateless and stateful firewall 

and the security benefits of a stateful firewall. 

Finally, we discussed next generation firewalls 

and the security benefits they provide. 

Coming up, we'll learn more about virtual networks.