Welcome back! In this video, we are 

going to discuss adding and deleting users. 

This is related to the concept of authentication. 

Authentication is the process of a user 

proving that they are who they say 

they are in the system.

Play video starting at ::16 and follow transcript0:16

Just like in a physical building, 

not all users should be allowed in. 

Not all users should get access to the system. 

But we also want to make sure everyone 

who should have access to the system has it. 

That's why we need to add users. 

New users can be new to 

the organization or new to a group. 

This could be related to a change in 

organizational structure or simply a directive 

from management to move someone.

Play video starting at ::42 and follow transcript0:42

And also, when users leave the organization, 

they need to be deleted. 

They should no longer have 

access to any part of the system. 

Or if they simply changed groups, 

they should be deleted from groups 

that they are no longer a part of.

Play video starting at ::56 and follow transcript0:56

Now that we've sorted out why it's 

important to add and delete users, 

let's discuss a different type of user, the root user. 

A root user, or superuser, 

is a user with elevated privileges to modify the system. 

Regular users have limitations, 

where the root does not.

Play video starting at :1:14 and follow transcript1:14

Individuals who need to perform 

specific tasks can be temporarily added as root users. 

Root users can create, modify, 

or delete any file and run any program. 

Only root users or accounts with 

root privileges can add new users. 

So you may be wondering how you become a superuser. 

Well, one way is logging in as the root user, 

but running commands as the root user is 

considered to be bad practice when using Linux.

Play video starting at :1:43 and follow transcript1:43

Why is running commands as 

a root user potentially problematic? 

The first problem with logging in 

as root is the security risks. 

Malicious actors will try to breach the root account. 

Since it's the most powerful account, to stay safe, 

the root account should have logins disabled. 

Another problem is that it's very 

easy to make irreversible mistakes.

Play video starting at :2:6 and follow transcript2:06

It's very easy to type the wrong command in the CLI, 

and if you're running as the root user, 

you run a higher risk of making an irreversible mistake, 

such as permanently deleting a directory. 

Finally, there's the concern of accountability. 

In a multi-user environment like Linux, 

there are many users. 

If a user is running as root, 

there is no way to track who exactly ran a command. 

One solution to help solve this problem is sudo.

Play video starting at :2:35 and follow transcript2:35

sudo is a command that temporarily grants 

elevated permissions to specific users. 

This provides more of 

a controlled approach compared to root, 

which runs every command with root privileges. 

sudo solves lots of 

problems associated with running as root.

Play video starting at :2:51 and follow transcript2:51

sudo comes from super-user-do 

and lets you execute commands as 

an elevated user without having 

to sign in and out of another account. 

Running sudo will prompt you to enter 

the password for the user you're currently logged in as. 

Not all users on a system can become a superuser. 

Users must be granted sudo access through 

a configuration file called the sudoers file.

Play video starting at :3:16 and follow transcript3:16

Now that we've learned about sudo, 

let's learn how we can use it with 

another command to add users. 

This command is useradd. 

useradd adds a user to the system. 

Only root or users with 

sudo privileges can use a useradd command. 

Let's look at a specific example 

in which we need to add a user. 

We'll imagine a new representative is joining 

the sales department and will be given 

the username of salesrep7. 

We're tasked with adding them to the system.

Play video starting at :3:47 and follow transcript3:47

Let's try adding the new user. 

First, we need to use the sudo command, 

followed by the useradd command, 

and then last, the username we want to add, 

in this case, salesrep7. 

This command doesn't display anything on the screen. 

But since we get a new Bash cursor 

and not an error message, 

we can feel confident that 

the command worked successfully. 

If it didn't, an error message would have appeared. 

Sometimes an error has to do with 

something simple like misspelling useradd. 

Or, it might be because we didn't have sudo privileges.

Play video starting at :4:20 and follow transcript4:20

Now let's learn how to do the opposite. 

Let's learn how to delete a user with userdel. 

userdel deletes a user from the system. 

Similarly, we need root permissions that we'll 

access through sudo to use userdel. 

Let's go back to our example of the user we added. 

Let's imagine two months later, 

the sales representative that we just 

added to the system leaves the company. 

That user should no longer have access to the system. 

Let's delete that user from the system.

Play video starting at :4:51 and follow transcript4:51

Again, the sudo command is used first, 

then we add the userdel command. 

Last, we add the name of the user we want to delete. 

Again, we know it ran successfully because 

there is a new Bash cursor and not an error message.

Play video starting at :5:7 and follow transcript5:07

Now, we've covered how to add and delete 

users and how these actions require sudo. 

When using sudo, we have to use our best judgment. 

These special privileges must be used 

responsibly to ensure a secure system.