There are so many others just like you 

who will be using the command line. 

Linux's popularity and ease of use 

has created a large online community 

that constantly publishes information to 

help users learn how to operate Linux. 

Since Linux is open-source, 

it has become a global community of 

users that contribute frequently.

Play video starting at ::22 and follow transcript0:22

This global community is a huge resource for 

all Linux users because users 

can find answers for everyday tasks. 

Just searching on the internet will provide many answers. 

The easiest way to troubleshoot a task is to search and 

read about how someone else has done it. 

Looking for resources on how to execute 

a task is a good way for beginners to continue learning.

Play video starting at ::45 and follow transcript0:45

So far, you've learned how to add users, 

but imagine if later you want to add a new group. 

One way to learn how to do this is to search online. 

Let's give this a try through a Google search. 

The search results give us 

many options for adding a group in Linux.

Play video starting at :1:1 and follow transcript1:01

Another reputable source is a 

Unix & Linux Stack Exchange. 

Their answers are ranked with 

points to display high-quality answers. 

Many questions relate to 

more advanced users and 

are geared towards troubleshooting.

Play video starting at :1:16 and follow transcript1:16

Well, now you know where to get some extra support 

whenever in doubt about topics in Linux. 

There is a lot of support just a click away. 

Coming up, we'll learn how to get support 

from within the command line itself. Join me.