We've explored how SIEM tools are used 

to collect and analyze log data. 

However, this is just one of 

the many ways SIEM tools are used in cybersecurity.

Play video starting at ::12 and follow transcript0:12

SIEM tools can also be used to create dashboards. 

You might have encountered dashboards 

in an app on your phone or other device. 

They present information about your account or 

location in a format that's easy to understand.

Play video starting at ::28 and follow transcript0:28

For example, 

weather apps display data like temperature, 

precipitation, 

wind speed, and the forecast using charts, 

graphs, and other visual elements. 

This format makes it easy to quickly 

identify weather patterns and trends, 

so you can stay prepared and plan your day accordingly.

Play video starting at ::48 and follow transcript0:48

Just like weather apps help people make 

quick and informed decisions based on data, 

SIEM dashboards help security analysts 

quickly and easily access 

their organization's security information as 

charts, graphs, or tables.

Play video starting at :1:5 and follow transcript1:05

For example, a security analyst 

receives an alert about a suspicious login attempt. 

The analyst accesses their SIEM dashboard 

to gather information about this alert. 

Using the dashboard, 

the analyst discovers that there have been 

500 login attempts for Ymara's 

account in the span of five-minutes. 

They also discover that the login attempts happened from 

geographic locations outside of Ymara's 

usual location and outside of her usual working hours. 

By using a dashboard, 

the security analyst was able to quickly review 

visual representations of the timeline 

of the login attempts, 

the location, and the exact time of the activity, 

then determine that the activity was suspicious.

Play video starting at :1:53 and follow transcript1:53

In addition to providing 

a comprehensive summary of security-related data, 

SIEM dashboards also provide 

stakeholders with different metrics. 

Metrics are key technical attributes 

such as response time, 

availability, and failure rate, 

which are used to assess 

the performance of a software application.

Play video starting at :2:15 and follow transcript2:15

SIEM dashboards can be 

customized to display specific metrics 

or other data that are relevant 

to different members in an organization. 

For example, a security analyst may create a dashboard 

that displays metrics for 

monitoring everyday business operations, 

like the volume of incoming and outgoing network traffic.

Play video starting at :2:37 and follow transcript2:37

We've examined how security analysts use 

SIEM dashboards to help 

organizations maintain their security posture. 

Well done!

Play video starting at :2:46 and follow transcript2:46

Coming up, we'll discuss some common SIEM tools 

used in the cybersecurity industry. Meet you there.