Hello again. In this video, 

you'll learn more about communication protocols and 

devices used to communicate 

with each other across the internet. 

This is called the TCP/IP model.

Play video starting at ::12 and follow transcript0:12

TCP/IP stands for 

Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol. 

TCP/IP is the standard model 

used for network communication. 

Let's take a closer look at this model by 

defining TCP and IP separately.

Play video starting at ::26 and follow transcript0:26

First, TCP, or Transmission Control Protocol, 

is an internet communication protocol that allows 

two devices to form a connection and stream data. 

The protocol includes a set of instructions to 

organize data, so it can be sent across a network. 

It also establishes a connection between two devices 

and makes sure that packets 

reach their appropriate destination.

Play video starting at ::45 and follow transcript0:45

The IP in TCP/IP stands for Internet Protocol. 

IP has a set of standards used for routing and addressing 

data packets as they travel 

between devices on a network. 

Included in the Internet Protocol (IP) is the IP address 

that functions as an address for each private network. 

You'll learn more about IP addresses a bit later.

Play video starting at :1:3 and follow transcript1:03

When data packets are sent and received across a network, 

they are assigned a port.

Play video starting at :1:8 and follow transcript1:08

Within the operating system of a network device, 

a port is a software-based location that organizes 

the sending and receiving of data 

between devices on a network. 

Ports divide network traffic into segments 

based on the service they will perform 

between two devices. 

The computers sending and 

receiving these data segments know how to 

prioritize and process these segments 

based on their port number.

Play video starting at :1:32 and follow transcript1:32

This is like sending a letter to 

a friend who lives in an apartment building. 

The mail delivery person 

not only knows how to find the building, 

but they also know exactly where to go in the building 

to find the apartment number where your friend lives.

Play video starting at :1:46 and follow transcript1:46

Data packets include instructions that tell 

the receiving device what to do with the information. 

These instructions come in the form of a port number. 

Port numbers allow computers 

to split the network traffic and 

prioritize the operations they 

will perform with the data. 

Some common port numbers are: 

port 25, which is used for e-mail, 

port 443, which is 

used for secure internet communication, 

and port 20, for large file transfers.

Play video starting at :2:10 and follow transcript2:10

As you've learned in this video, 

a lot of information and instructions are 

contained in data packets as 

they travel across a network. 

Coming up, you'll learn more about the TCP/IP model.