Congratulations on completing this course! 

Let's recap what we've covered so far. 

First, we reviewed CISSP's eight security domains and 

focused on threats, risks, and vulnerabilities to business operations.

Play video starting at ::19 and follow transcript0:19

Then, we explored security frameworks and controls, and how they're a starting 

point for creating policies and processes for security management. 

This included a discussion of the CIA triad, NIST frameworks, and 

security design principles, and how they benefit the security community as a whole. 

This was followed by a discussion about how frameworks, controls, and 

principles are related to security audits.

Play video starting at ::50 and follow transcript0:50

We also explored basic security tools, such as SIEM dashboards, and 

how they are used to protect business operations. 

And finally, we covered how to protect assets and data by using playbooks.

Play video starting at :1:5 and follow transcript1:05

As a security analyst, you may be working on multiple tasks at once. 

Understanding the tools you have at your disposal, and 

how to use them, will elevate your knowledge in the field while helping you 

successfully accomplish your everyday tasks.

Play video starting at :1:22 and follow transcript1:22

Coming up next in the program, my colleague, Chris, 

will provide more details about topics covered in this course and 

introduce you to some new core security concepts. 

I've enjoyed sharing this journey with you.