Now that we've covered different frameworks, 

controls, security principles, 

and compliance regulations, the question is: 

How do they all work together?

Play video starting at ::11 and follow transcript0:11

The answer to that question is 

by conducting security audits. 

A security audit is a review of 

an organization's security controls, 

policies, and procedures against a set of expectations.

Play video starting at ::25 and follow transcript0:25

There are two main types of 

security audits: external and internal. 

We'll focus on internal security audits 

because those are the types 

of audits that entry-level analysts 

might be asked to contribute to.

Play video starting at ::40 and follow transcript0:40

An internal security audit is 

typically conducted by a team of 

people that might include 

an organization's compliance officer, 

security manager, and other security team members. 

Internal security audits are used to help improve 

an organization's security posture and help organizations 

avoid fines from governing 

agencies due to a lack of compliance. 

Internal security audits help 

security teams identify organizational risk, 

assess controls, and correct compliance issues.

Play video starting at :1:14 and follow transcript1:14

Now that we've discussed the purposes of internal audits, 

let's cover some common elements of internal audits. 

These include establishing the scope 

and goals of the audit, 

conducting a risk assessment 

of the organization's assets, 

completing a controls assessment, 

assessing compliance, 

and communicating results to stakeholders.

Play video starting at :1:37 and follow transcript1:37

In this video, we'll cover 

the first two elements, which are 

a part of the audit planning process: 

establishing the scope and goals, 

then completing a risk assessment.

Play video starting at :1:49 and follow transcript1:49

Scope refers to the specific criteria 

of an internal security audit. 

Scope requires organizations to identify people, assets, 

policies, procedures, 

and technologies that might 

impact an organization's security posture. 

Goals are an outline of 

the organization's security objectives, 

or what they want to achieve 

in order to improve their security posture.

Play video starting at :2:15 and follow transcript2:15

Although more senior-level security team members and 

other stakeholders usually establish 

the scope and goals of the audit, 

entry-level analysts might be 

asked to review and understand 

the scope and goals in order to 

complete other elements of the audit.

Play video starting at :2:31 and follow transcript2:31

As an example, the scope of 

this audit involves assessing user permissions; 

identifying existing controls, policies, 

and procedures; and accounting for 

the technology currently in use by the organization. 

The goals outlined include 

implementing core functions of frameworks, 

like the NIST CSF; 

establishing policies and procedures to ensure 

compliance; and strengthening system controls.

Play video starting at :3:2 and follow transcript3:02

The next element is conducting a risk assessment, 

which is focused on identifying 

potential threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. 

This helps organizations consider 

what security measures should 

be implemented and monitored 

to ensure the safety of assets. 

Similar to establishing the scope and goals, 

a risk assessment is oftentimes 

completed by managers or other stakeholders. 

However, you might be asked to analyze 

details provided in the risk assessment 

to consider what types of 

controls and compliance regulations 

need to be in place to help 

improve the organization's security posture.

Play video starting at :3:44 and follow transcript3:44

For example, this risk assessment 

highlights that there are inadequate controls, 

processes, and procedures in 

place to protect the organization's assets. 

Specifically, there is a lack of proper management of 

physical and digital assets, 

including employee equipment. 

The equipment used to 

store data is not properly secured. 

And access to private information stored in 

the organization's internal network 

likely needs more robust controls in place. 

Now that we've discussed 

the initial planning elements 

of an internal security audit, 

coming up, we'll focus on the last three elements.