This concludes our brief introduction to some of the most influential 

security attacks throughout history and CISSP's eight security domains. 

Let's review what we've discussed.

Play video starting at ::14 and follow transcript0:14

First, we covered viruses, including the Brain virus and the Morris worm, 

and discussed how these early forms of malware shaped the security industry. 

We also discussed how many attacks today are variants of these early examples. 

Understanding previous attacks is critical for security professionals who 

are working to protect organizations and people from possible future variants.

Play video starting at ::39 and follow transcript0:39

We also discussed social engineering and threat actor motives 

by learning about the LoveLetter attack and the Equifax data breach. 

These incidents showed the widespread impacts and 

associated costs of more recent security breaches in the digital age.

Play video starting at ::56 and follow transcript0:56

Finally, we introduced CISSP's eight security domains and how they can be 

used to categorize different areas of focus within the security profession.

Play video starting at :1:6 and follow transcript1:06

I hope you're feeling confident about your foundational security knowledge! 

Learning the history of security can allow you to better understand the current 

industry. 

CISSP's eight security domains provide a way to organize 

the work of security professionals.

Play video starting at :1:23 and follow transcript1:23

Remember, every security professional is essential. 

Your unique point of view, professional background, and knowledge are valuable. 

So, the diversity you bring to the field will further 

improve the security industry as you work to keep organizations and people safe.